Boots are a type of armor that covers the feet of the player. There are five types of boots - Leather Boots, Chain Boots, Iron Boots, Diamond Boots and Gold Boots.
If a zombie, zombie pigman or skeleton is wearing armor, there is a 8.5% chance (9.5% with Looting I, 10.5% with Looting II and 11.5% with Looting III) that the mob will drop boots upon death. It will usually be badly damaged, and may be enchanted.
Iron boots can be found in village chests.
Armorer villagers sell chainmail boots for 5–7 emeralds as one of their fourth tier trades.
Leather boots can be caught when fishing.
Boots can be placed in the 4th armor slot of a player's inventory for activation.
Defense points are each signified by half of a shirt of mail in the armor bar above the health bar. Each defense point will reduce any damage dealt to the player which is absorbed by armor by 4%, increasing additively with the number of defense points. Different materials and combinations of armor provide different levels of defense.
The following table shows the amount of defense points added by boots.
The following table shows the amount of damage each piece of armor can absorb before being destroyed.
Any "hit" from a damage source that can be blocked by armor will remove one point of durability from each piece of armor worn. Damage taken that armor doesn't protect (such as falling or drowning) will not damage the armor, even if it is enchanted to protect against that type of damage. The following chart displays how many hits boots can endure.
Boots can receive the following enchantments Depth Strider.
Boots can receive the following enchantments Fire Protection.
Boots can receive the following enchantments Projectile Protection.
Boots can receive the following enchantments Blast Protection.
Boots can receive the following enchantments Protection.
Boots can receive the following enchantments Feather Falling.
Boots can receive the following enchantments Unbreaking.
Boots can receive the following enchantments Thorns.
