Carrots are a food item in Minecraft, added in update 1.4.2 and restore  per carrot eaten. Carrots can be acquired from NPC Villages or rarely Zombies. When planted they grow much like Wheat. Unlike wheat, however, they grow only through four stages instead of wheat's eight stages. They can also be fully grown via Bonemeal, much like other crops. Using carrots on Pigs or Rabbits will activate their Love Mode. They can be crafted into a handful of things, including Carrot on a Stick and Golden Carrots. .
Carrots are less space-consuming than a large field of Wheat crops, and to have over a full stack of Carrots may only require as few as a 6x4 plot compared to Bread, which requires a 1x3 space for one piece of Bread.
Carrots have a higher saturation level than most other crops.
Carrots are used to breed Pigs, and Chickens, as technically, Carrots are a seed. However, Chickens will not follow you if you are equipped with a carrot.
Carrots do not require crafting or cooking to get the most out of them.
Carrots can be hard to come by, especially in pre-1.4.2 worlds as they are only found in NPC Villages which are not very common or as a rare drop from Zombies.
The way carrots looked before 1.4.
Carrots and Wheat look identical on their first stage.
Carrots can commonly be found in Villages.
As of Minecraft Pocket Edition version 0.8.1, Carrots may not fully grow with Bone Meal. This is yet to be fixed.
A carrot crop.
Some carrots fully grown.
crafting recipe for golden carrot.
Add a photo to this gallery.
A carrot is a food item that can be eaten by the player.
Carrots can be farmed and harvested on farmland. Planted carrots take 8 stages to grow, and go through 4 visually distinct stages. Mature carrot crops drop 1 to 4 carrots. Bone meal can be used on carrots. Using a tool enchanted with fortune increases the maximum number of carrots dropped by 1 per level.
Villager farmers will break fully grown carrots, and may pick up the carrots as well.
Rabbits will find and eat mature carrot crops. The crops when eaten will not drop any carrots.
Rarely, zombies may drop a carrot when killed by the player.
Carrots generate naturally as crops in villages.
To eat a carrot, press and hold use while the carrot is selected in the hotbar. Eating a carrot restores 3 () hunger (3 () in Pocket Edition) and 3.6 hunger saturation.
Carrots can also be used to breed and attract pigs and rabbits.
Villagers can pick up carrot items to become willing, which will allow them to breed. Villagers require 12 carrots to become willing.
Villager farmers will buy 15-19 carrots for an emerald as one of their initial tier trades.
All the seeds that exist in the game but nether warts, as of 12w34a.
First image released by Dinnerbone of pigs being controlled with a Carrot on a Stick.
Carrots and Potatoes found growing naturally in a NPC Village.
Carrots in multiple stages of growth.
A carrot that dropped from a zombie, just to the right of the spawner.
