An enchanted book is an item which allows players to add enchantments to certain items.
Enchanted books can be found in chests located in dungeons, strongholds, desert temples, jungle temples and mineshafts. Enchanted books from the same chest have the same enchantments. Enchantment probabilities are the same as a level 30 enchantment on an enchantment table, but the chance of multiple enchantments is not reduced.
Enchanted books can be obtained as a "treasure" item from fishing as part of the "treasure" category. The book has the equivalent of a level 30 enchantment from an enchantment table.
Enchanted books can be bought from librarian villagers as part of their tier 1, 4 and 5 trades, meaning each librarian villager will sell up to three books. The cost varies from 5-64 emeralds, based on the enchantment and the level. They may contain any available enchantment at any available level.
Players can create an enchanted book by enchanting a book on an enchantment table. Books have a much decreased chance of getting multiple enchantments as opposed to other items, and have an "enchantability level" of 1, as opposed to most other items averaging 10. Enchanting books can commonly have up to 5 unique enchantments, and can receive any type of enchantments.
In Survival, enchanted books are the only method to obtain certain enchantments, such as Silk Touch on shears. Enchanted books have a shine effect on their sprite.
To use an enchanted book, the player must place an item in the first slot in an anvil, and a book in the next. In order to complete the enchantment, the player must have the required amount of experience. Note that using an enchanted book gets significant discounts at the anvil. Enchanted books themselves can be combined to create a single book with increased or multiple enchantments, much as when combining tools or weapons.
When combining items, the compatible enchantments from the book in the second slot are transferred to the item from the first slot, keeping the highest level of any type. If two enchantments have the same level and a higher level is available, they will combine into the next level. If a book is applied to an item which can't take all of its spells, the appropriate spells are transferred, while the unusable ones are lost. Enchanted books are single-use.
Enchanted books do not exhibit their enchantment.
Enchanted books can only be used with a limited set of items. Besides the usual targets for the various enchantments, they do allow applying some enchantments that cannot be applied at an enchantment table. This includes boosting enchantments such as Sharpness or Thorns to their maximum power, and the following special enchantments.
The player can enchant any item with any enchantment in creative mode, allowing any applied effects to exhibit themselves. For example, a stick can be enchanted with Silk Touch to allow the player to successfully dig grass blocks. The enchanted item can still be used in Survival mode without any loss of enchantments.
If a block is enchanted, it will lose the enchantments upon being placed in the world.
When obtained through the /give command, the enchanted book will have no attached enchantments, but will still shine as if it is enchanted.
First image of an enchanted book, released by Dinnerbone.
An enchanted book found in a dungeon chest.
Minecraft enchantment calculator Another enchantment calculation tool.
