An ender pearl is an item which is used to teleport.
Endermen may drop 0-1 ender pearl when killed.
Stronghold slab altar chests may contain ender pearls in stacks of 1.
To throw an ender pearl, press use, and the player character will teleport to its impact location, consuming the ender pearl, and dealing 5 () damage to the user. Wearing armor enchanted with Protection and/or Feather Falling reduces the damage taken from the ender pearl. With enough protection and enough pearls, one could travel a long distance very quickly. Ender pearls do not function in Creative mode.
Ender pearls can travel about 30 meters when thrown straight up and about 50 meters forward when thrown in a 45° angle.
Ender pearls collide with vines, grass, dead bushes, ferns, flowers, all sapling types, all mushrooms types, all minecart types, boats, and nether portals.
Ender pearls have a 5% chance to spawn endermites when used.
Ender pearls can be used to teleport/move through non-solid blocks by pressing against the blocks and using the ender pearl at the player's feet until the player goes through.
It is possible to spawn a thrown ender pearl with the ID 14, but it does not teleport. This will only display the ender pearl sprite and disappear instantly.
If the player throws an ender pearl and then dies before impact, the player does not teleport after respawning, nor take fall damage from the pearl.
If the player throws an ender pearl in survival mode and changes to creative mode before the pearl lands, the player is still teleported.
The player is teleported if they throw an ender pearl and enter the Nether before it lands. The pearl is not lost if an Ender Pearl is thrown into a nether portal and the player travels through the portal, the pearl will appear and land and teleport the player as if you had just thrown it.
If multiple ender pearls are thrown in succession, the player can only be hurt once from fall damage within about a one second span.
If a player dies from ender pearl teleportation, the death message will say: "<player> hit the ground too hard".
Ender pearls have a small cone of fire; if you throw them straight up, they will not all follow the same path.
Ender pearls were formerly found in water, however endermen now teleport out to prevent damage.
Graph about throwing angle relative to Ender Pearl horizontal velocity.
The End.
Ender Dragon.
End Portal.
