Items are "dropped" blocks or items (non-block resources) which appear in the world, rather than being in the inventory of the player or a tile entity; they are a type of entity.
In the first public mention of them, this early video of Minecraft (Classic 0.24) by Notch, they were referred to as "resources".
Items have two possible appearances, generally corresponding to whether the item appears as a 3D or 2D shape in a player's inventory screens. 3D items appear as their 3D shape, miniaturized to about ⁄4 scale, while 2D items appear as ⁄2 scale with all the pixels replaced with a cube. Both types slowly rotate and bob up and down.
When a single item entity represents a stack of more than one (which happens when the player discards a stack from an inventory window, or when another like item comes to occupy the same place), it appears as several of the item stuck together. Stacks of 2–5 appear as two, 6–20 as three, and 21–64 as four.
Item entities come from many sources. Some common ones are The death of a mob or player.
Some common ones are A block which is mined by a player, destroyed by an explosion (depending on the explosion power, a certain proportion of blocks do not drop as items), or washed away by water (note if there is an explosion with an item entity within the blast radius an item entity has a 90% chance to disappear).
Some common ones are A block which finds itself in an inappropriate location A block attached to another block which was removed (such as a torch, ladder, or sign).
A block which finds itself in an inappropriate location A plant in a space not meeting its survival conditions.
Some common ones are A falling block (sand, gravel, anvil, or dragon egg) which lands in an already-occupied space.
Some common ones are An inventory item tossed by pressing the toss key (default Q), dragging a stack outside of an inventory window, or leaving a GUI which does not hold items permanently (such as a crafting table or enchantment table).
Some common ones are A container (other than an ender chest) with items inside that is destroyed.
Items cannot be attacked (by players or mobs); attempting to do so simply hits what is behind them. However, they may take damage and disappear from environmental or block-based effects such as explosions, fire, lava, a falling anvil, and contact with cactus. Items have essentially no health, so they are destroyed by the slightest damage. The one exception is fire damage from lava; they may burn briefly before disappearing in that case.
Items do not react to collisions with other entities; they are only stopped or moved by blocks. However, minecarts or boats encountering any entity, including items, will come to a dead stop.
If an item is within an opaque block, then: If it is surrounded on all sides by opaque blocks, it will fly out of the top of the block. Otherwise it will fly out one of the unobstructed sides. Note that it will do this even if the space below is unoccupied; therefore, it is possible to recover an item dropped by breaking a hole in a floor by quickly placing another block there. Items are not pushed out by non-opaque blocks such as glass and slabs.
When an item comes within one block of a player whose inventory is not full, it flies quickly toward them — regardless of any intervening blocks — and when it reaches them it is added to their inventory, with a “pop” sound. If the item appears in their hotbar, then the hotbar item is briefly animated with a distortion effect. Unlike experience orbs, arbitrary numbers of items can be picked up instantaneously. If the player was already within pickup distance when the item was dropped (commonly because that player just dropped it), it may not fly until the player moves slightly.
Items despawn after 6000 game ticks (5 minutes) of being in a loaded chunk, unless another item of the same kind was dropped next to them and added to its stack. Merging dropped item stacks will set the new stack's despawn time to the lower of the two times.
When about 16 blocks from an item, the item visually disappears.
It is possible to collect dropped items through thin blocks such as fences, nether brick fences, iron bars, doors or glass panes, and also through a corner of two blocks.
If you use the command /summon Item, a stone item will drop in front of you.
If you mine a block, it will take 1/2 second before you can pick the item up. If you drop an item using Q, it will take 2 seconds before you can pick it up again.
Drops — items dropped by mobs when killed.
Chunk format for more information about the attributes of items.
