Shears are a tool.
Shepherd villagers sell shears for 3–4 emeralds as part of their initial tier trades.
Shears are the most efficient way to get wool from sheep, producing 1-3 wool blocks (as opposed to killing a sheep which produces only 1 wool block).
Shears can also be used to harvest leaves, tall grass, ferns (both normal and 2-high), dead bushes and vines. Note that when harvesting dead bushes it does not use up durability on the shears. Also, leaves harvested by shears do not decay. If leaves are sheared with shears, they will not drop saplings, unlike using a tool with a Silk Touch enchantment on leaves, which will occasionally drop saplings.
Cobwebs can be destroyed by shears in half a second, dropping one piece of string. With a Silk Touch enchantment the cobweb drops itself instead.
Shearing a mooshroom drops 5 red mushrooms and turns it into a normal cow.
Shearing a tripwire connected to tripwire hooks doesn't trigger them.
Shears can receive the following enchantments, but only through an anvil. Efficiency.
 Unbreaking.
 Silk Touch.
The following table shows various things about shears. Colors indicate what will be dropped when the block is broken White: The original block.
Colors indicate what will be dropped when the block is broken Blue: The Block's normal drop (i.e. string, seeds, sapling, apple).
Colors indicate what will be dropped when the block is broken Red: Nothing.
Dec value: 359.
Hex value: 167.
Durability: 238 uses.
Maximum stack 1.
Shears are great for harvesting certain blocks which could otherwise not be obtained. They are used to shear sheep, which will drop 1-3 wool blocks instead of just 1 from being killed. Blocks of wool are also broken faster with shears, so getting rid of a wool floor is best done with shears.
Shears are also used to get plants without breaking them. Vines, ferns, dead bushes, tall grass and all leaf blocks can be harvested using shears, which can then be placed down again by the player.
Cobwebs can also be destroyed easily with shears, though swords work just as good. Note that cobwebs will always drop string, it’s not possible to get cobwebs without using creative mode or mods.
Mooshrooms can also be sheared, they’ll drop red mushrooms and change into a normal cow.
Shears are created using 2 iron ingots, so they’re often available quite early in game. A pair of shears can be used 238 times before it breaks, which is a little less than other tools made out of iron.
It’s possible to combine two damaged pair of shears in any crafting interface, which will create a new pair of shears of the same type with the durability of the old ones added together, plus 10%.
