Desert temples (also known as Pyramids) are generated structures.
Desert temples naturally generate in desert biomes. Desert temples always spawn with their floor at y=64. This may cause the desert temple to be partially buried.
Desert temples are constructed from sandstone (all 3 variants), orange and blue stained clay, sandstone slabs, and sandstone stairs.
In the center of the temple's ground floor is a single block of blue stained clay. Underneath this stained clay is a 'booby-trapped' hidden chamber with four chests that can each contain very valuable loot. The trap consists of a stone pressure plate (located directly under the blue stained clay), connected to a 3x3x1 grid of TNT.
Desert temples look gray on maps, similar to bare stone, but with a distinctive shape.
Each chest contains 2–6 stacks of items, chosen from the following list. Chance listed is per stack, not for the chest as a whole.
The desert temple's basement is 21 blocks by 21 blocks.
The orange symbols on the outside resemble the Ancient Egyptian symbol for Life, an Ankh. .
Desert temples have a rare chance of generating improperly causing some blocks to be lost or added.
As there is no light in the lower chamber, mobs can spawn inside and trigger the TNT trap, destroying the chests and loot before any player can reach it. Also, rarely a lava lake might generate next to TNT, potentially setting the trap off as well.
A desert temple will not spawn fully if spawned partially on water. When spawned on lakes, they are only half-generated.
The top hole in the temple's ceiling is almost always generated above ground, so buried temples will be accessible, but fall damage is likely.
When a desert temple spawns above a ravine, it will not have a deeper foundation the way village buildings do; rather, its shaft will be left hanging. There will always be a one-block floor under the TNT.
A desert temple containing hardened clay.
The treasure room inside the hidden lower chamber of the temple.
The 9 TNT rigged under the stone pressure plate.
A temple spawned in a desert village.
A temple spawned in a normal village.
A desert temple generated under the sand.
What desert temples look like on maps.
A reconstructed temple with the shaft extending below it.
The previous temple viewed from a different angle.
A temple spawned on a thin desert caused by a mesa biome being generated next to a plains resulting in the temple being in 3 biomes.
Tutorial on defeating desert temples.
