Cats are a mob in Minecraft. They can be found in their wild form, Ocelots, in Jungle Biomes, and can be tamed with raw fish. The change of an ocelot being tamed is far more noticeable than that of a wolf. While the wolf merely gains a red collar, the cat changes color from yellow with black stripes to one of the following: orange tabby with green eyes (the most common), tuxedo with green eyes (shown on the right), or Siamese with blue eyes, white cat with black eyes, or a grey cat with green eyes. The cat also becomes a little bit smaller.
Cats also scare away creepers, making them very useful to bring along. Since dogs do not attack creepers, cats compensate for this weakness. Cats also always land on their feet, taking no fall damage. Cats also are reluctant to sit down after update 1.2.4.
Cats, like other mobs, can breed with other members of the same species. All you have to do is have two tamed cats together and make sure they're standing up. Take two raw fish and feed them one each. They will have love hearts above their heads and will run to each other and mingle for a bit. Then a small kitten should appear, whose pattern will match one of the parents. Cats can breed once every five minutes, and kittens cannot breed.
Taming a cat takes lots of patience, but only 2-5 fish. If you see an ocelot in the Jungle in your game, walk close to it, but not so close that it will sprint away. Take your fish in hand and wait until the ocelot curiously sees the fish. It will start to approach you. DO NOT MOVE YOUR HEAD WHILE IT IS WALKING TO YOU, as this will make it sprint away. The ocelot will keep walking until it comes to a stop right before you. Move your cursor over the ocelot very slowly until your cursor is on its head. Feed it the fish. If it is still not a cat, feed it one more at a time until it changes. .
Cats like to sit on chests, beds, and active furnaces, mirroring the behavior of real-life cats.
While active furnaces are not affected by sitting cats, chests and beds are. If a cat sits on a chest, it cannot be opened, and if one sits on a bed, the player will not be able to sleep. The only ways to stop them from sitting on a chest or bed are to lure them away with raw fish, put glass blocks above it, or create a piston device to push them off.
If a window is present in a house, a cat may sometimes look out of it.
Wolves will not attack cats, tamed or otherwise.
Due to a bug cats and dogs may, in rare cases, teleport close to the player without any notable reason. This may be intentional to prevent them from getting stuck or being unable to follow the player through the same path (such as over a large hill or across gaps).
 It is confirmed on PlayStation 4 that dogs will teleport in order to follow the player if the distance between them grows too far.
Creepers will run away from cats, as if they are scared of them.
A Siamese cat.
The face texture of a tuxedo cat.
Cats ignoring a bunch of chests and trying to sit on one specific one.
Add a photo to this gallery.
