Chickens are passive animal mobs that have existed in Minecraft since Alpha.
Chickens are slower than most mobs, but they can flap their wings when falling to prevent themselves from taking fall damage.
Chickens will follow players who are holding Seeds.
2 chickens can be bred with Seeds, which is when they will enter Love Mode, and spawn a chick directly.
Chicks can be spawned from Eggs, which adult chickens will lay every 5-7 minutes.
This makes chickens the only mob to produce items without being killed.
Chicks are the baby counterpart of Chickens, and are the third smallest mob in the game.
Any time an egg is thrown, there is a 12.5% chance that a baby chicken will spawn, or a 0.390625% chance that 4 baby chicken will spawn, or you can be sure a baby chicken will spawn by breeding 2 chickens.
Chicks will always follow the nearest adult chicken, but cannot swim and will drown in water.
Like many baby mobs, baby chickens have an oversized head.
Feeding chickens wheat seeds will produce a baby chicken.
Like other mobs, chickens will not enter Love Mode for another 5 minutes.
Chickens naturally generate on grass blocks with 2 blocks of free space above it at light level of 9 or more.
Chickens can be bred with wheat seeds, producing a baby chicken.
Thrown eggs have a 1/8 chance to spawn a baby chicken.
If an egg was thrown at a wall at certain angles, the chicken may spawn in the wall, causing suffocation.
Baby chickens will grow up in 20 minutes, although the growth can be accelerated by wheat seeds, which reduces 10% of the remaining time.
Chickens drop 0 to 2 feathers, and 1 unit of raw chicken.
If a chicken dies while on fire, it drops cooked chicken instead of raw chicken.
The amount of raw chicken (or cooked chicken) dropped is not affected by the Looting enchantment.
Chickens drop 1-3 experience when killed by a player or tamed wolf.
Chickens are 0.875 blocks tall, 0.5 blocks wide, and 0.8125 blocks long.
Chickens appear to wander around aimlessly, and usually swim in water.
When falling they will flap their wings quickly and fall slowly, making them immune to fall damage.
A chicken will lay one egg every 5 to 10 minutes, unless it's a part of a chicken jockey.
If you are close enough to a chicken when it lays an egg, a popping sound can be heard.
Chickens are drawn to light when in a dark environment.
When struck, chickens run around quickly and aimlessly.
Chickens can swim, visibly flapping their wings as they stay on the surface.
Chickens can be led around by holding a seed.
Chickens can be attacked by wild ocelots.
Baby chickens do not lay eggs.
Due to their small size, baby chickens can pass through openings even smaller than a full block, though not willingly.
A baby chicken's height is somewhere in between 0.51 to 0.80 blocks.
When swimming, baby chickens need only one block of air above their heads.
Full-grown chickens need two blocks of air above their heads or else they will take damage when they float up and will eventually die.
When a chicken is killed off a ledge, the corpse also falls more slowly than normal, and the wings still make a flapping animation.
Chickens are able to hide within hoppers due to their small size, protecting them from lava or water that might be directly on top of the hopper.
