Donkeys are passive mobs that can be ridden.
In Update 1.6, Donkeys can be spawned with a Horse Spawn Egg and are tamable. In survival they can be found naturally in the plains biomes along with their horse counter-parts. They are one of four different possible mounts in the game as of 1.6.2, the other three being Horses, Pigs, and Mules.
Donkeys are gray, elf-eared horses that you find in the wild or by using a Horse Spawn Egg.
Taming a donkey is done in the same manner that a horse would be. The player needs to simply have a free hand (no items in it) and right click on the donkey to mount. This will lead to the donkey walking around for a bit and possibly bucking off the player. This is similar to the way horses are tamed in real life known as "breaking" the horse. After up to 11 attempts to "break" the donkey, hearts will start emitting and the player will no longer be bucked off. Taming is permanent.
Similar to horses, first the player must tame it. Once tamed, riding is as simple as right clicking the donkey, no longer requiring an empty hand. At first the donkey will allow the user to ride it, and wander aimlessly. To control the movement, a saddle must be equipped. To do so the player can open their inventory while riding the donkey and placing a saddle in the appropriate saddle slot on the donkey's inventory.
Donkeys have the same usage as horses do. However, they do not allow the use of horse armor. Instead, they can carry items for the player. A donkey can only hold one chest, even though it appears to have two (one on each side(similar by putting two chest side-by-side forming a large chest)). A chest is simply equipped by placing a chest on the donkey by right clicking.
Like horses, some donkeys are faster, others have the ability to jump higher, and some have more health. The fastest donkey is slower than the fastest possible horse. A mule can be bred by breeding a horse with a donkey. The mule in a combination of the horse and donkey, appearing as a horse with long ears.
The only two differences between donkeys and horses is that donkeys can't wear armor, but can wear chests that can be unlocked in it's inventory. On the other hand, horses can wear armor but can't wear chests. Plus, some horses are faster than donkeys.
Currently, Donkeys cannot be equipped with chests in the Console Versions.
