The Elder Guardian is a hostile mob that only spawns underwater, in Water Dungeons. It is a stronger variant of the Guardian.
The Elder Guardian spawns 3 times in set sections of the water dungeon. Elder Guardians inflict the Mining Fatigue III effect on nearby players, the purpose of this being to protect the treasures (Gold Blocks and Wet Sponges) of the dungeon from being mined until after the dungeon has been fully conquered, as well as to prevent players from simply mining through the dungeon walls.
The Elder Guardian attacks by sending out a large laser beam which harms the player. In addition, Elder Guardians can target and damage players who are riding in boats; however once the player is out of range, the Elder Guardian's laser will disengage from the player, and deal no damage, much like the regular Guardian.
Elder Guardians do not swim around as much as normal Guardians, however they act the same as regular guardians on land. Their eyes will follow and stare at any nearby players, and will always look directly at who they're attacking. This makes them the first mob with dynamic eyes. (The eyes are actually the head part of the model and almost all mob's heads will look toward the player making it look as if the mob's eye was looking at you).
Once each minute, the Elder Guardian will search for players in a 50-block radius who are not afflicted with Mining Fatigue, who are afflicted with a level of fatigue lower than III, or whose affliction will wear off in less than one minute. The players found will be inflicted with Mining Fatigue III for 5 minutes, and a ghostly image of the Elder will appear to the player.
Elder Guardians are very resistant to melee attacks when under water, as the player will not be able to quickly approach the Guardian due to the water's slowing effect. Guardians will swim away when approached by a player it is targeting, and the Elder Guardian will deal   of damage every time it is hit when its spikes are extended. If cornered, the Elder Guardian will usually extend its spikes and fire at the player, even at point blank range.
The Elder Guardians are resistant to fire damage, but if somehow are brought on land, they sometimes take fall damage from their swift movement.
If the player must fight an Elder Guardian in melee, they should try to corner it and hope for the best; or else try to trick it into swimming within melee range repeatedly.
The Elder Guardian cannot shoot as fast as a player with a bow can, so a skilled player will be able to shoot the Guardian, and then hide to break the beam's lock, repeating until the Guardian is dead. If the Guardian is in shallow water the player can use a fishing rod to pull it out of the water where the players can then kill it with melee without being shot at or hurt by the spikes.
The Elder Guardian has a very large amount of HP (80), making melee attacks even harder. Elder Guardians do more damage than regular Guardians. Fighting Elder Guardians is incredibly dangerous without armor. Entering their territory without armor will almost always lead to a swift death, even if armed with a sword or bow and arrow.
The Elder Guardian ranks 2nd health-wise out of non-boss mobs, secondary to the Iron Golem.
The Elder Guardian is the first mini-boss mob to be introduced into the vanilla game.
The Elder Guardian's texture has inverted colors of a normal Guardian.
The Elder Guardian firing a laser at the Player.
The elder guardian curse when you are shot by its laser,note that the eye is the 'Head' model.
Add a photo to this gallery.
The Elder Guardian is a hostile mob which only spawns underwater in ocean monuments. It is a stronger variant of the guardian.
Three elder guardians spawn naturally during the generation of each ocean monument. They will not respawn after their initial spawn, thus there are a limited amount of them per world. Elder guardians spawned with monuments do not naturally despawn, although they will be removed along with other hostile mobs in peaceful difficulty. They do not have a spawn egg and thus can only be spawned through commands or natural generation.
The elder guardian drops 0 to 1 prismarine crystals, 0 to 2 prismarine shards, and 0 to 1 raw fish. If killed by the player, it also drops a single wet sponge.
The elder guardian has a 2.5% chance of dropping a rare drop when killed by the player. The chance of which fish you get is identical to catching fish: 60% chance for raw fish, 25% chance for raw salmon, 2% chance for clownfish, and 13% chance for pufferfish.
Looting increases the maximum prismarine shard drop by one per level. The chance of getting a raw fish drop is 50% with Looting I (2/4), 60% with Looting II (3/5), and 67% with Looting III (4/6). The chance of getting a rare drop is also increased by 0.5% per level.
The prismarine crystals drop will only happen if the common raw fish drop fails, with the same chances as the raw fish drop. This works out to a base chance of 22% (2/9), Looting I giving 25% (4/16), Looting II dropping down to 24% (6/25), and Looting III giving 22% (8/36), or the same as the base chance. They drop 10 experience when killed by a player or tamed wolf.
Elder guardians do not swim around as much as normal guardians, but otherwise act the same as regular guardians both in water and on land. Elder guardians will swim away when approached by a player it is targeting. Like normal guardians, elder guardians will attempt to attack both the player and squid.
The elder guardian's eye follows and stares at any nearby players, and always looks directly at its target. The eye still follows a completely unarmored player under the effects of a potion of invisibility, but the elder guardian won't attack them. However, elder guardians still attack squid under that same status effect. It seems that their eyes are coded to simply track to closest player, as they also follow players in spectator mode.
The elder guardian has several methods of attack, including firing its laser, inflicting mining fatigue, and a defensive thorn-like attack.
The laser takes several seconds to charge, doing no damage and allowing the player to move away in the meantime, and changing from purple to bright yellow. Once charged, the beam abruptly ends and deals 8 () damage on normal difficulty. The elder guardian will swim around for a few seconds before firing again. If the target comes near the elder guardian while it is firing its beam, it will stop firing and swim away until it is at a comfortable range, at which point it will continue attacking. The beam cannot be dodged, and has a maximum range of approximately 14 blocks. Once the player is out of range, or if the beam is obstructed by solid blocks, the guardian's beam will disengage from the player, and deal no damage.
Once each minute, the elder guardian will search for players in a 50-block radius who are not afflicted with mining fatigue III for a minute or longer. The players found will be inflicted with mining fatigue III for 5 minutes, and a ghostly image of the elder guardian will appear to the player, accompanied with a ghastly noise. This attack can target players through blocks, even when there is no path to that player (e.g., players who are underground), and target unarmored players under the effects of a potion of invisibility.
Elder guardians deal 2 () of damage every time it is hit when its spikes are extended. If cornered, the elder guardian will usually extend its spikes and fire at the player, even at point blank range.
The elder guardian's eye is actually the "head" part of the mob's model, giving the illusion of a dynamic eye.
Elder guardians don't have spawn eggs, as they use the same entity id as guardians.
A special effect of the elder guardian, gives mining fatigue III for 5 minutes.
Elder guardian, spawned in the ocean monument.
Elder guardian's attack.
Elder guardian in full view.
The inside of an elder guardian (spikes retracted).
Size comparison between an elder and a normal guardian.
The elder guardian curse ghastly image actually shows the elder guardian's full model.
