Ghasts are hostile Nether dwelling mobs that float around and spit Fire charges at players. Ghasts are cube shaped with 9 large tentacles hanging beneath them, and their main body is an exact 4 * 4 * 4 block cube, but despite their ghost like appearance and their ability to move through other mobs, they cannot move through solid blocks or be done extra damage to from the smite enchantment. Ghasts were first added in the Halloween update, and will spawn anywhere in the Nether where there is a 5 * 5 * 5 block space.
When a Ghast finds a player, it will keep floating around, but it will face the player and start opening its red mouth and eyes and spitting Fire Charges whenever it has a clear shot. These fireballs create explosions and light nearby blocks on fire. Due to this, Ghasts can very quickly cover the landscape in fire.. Ghasts will always float around randomly, unless a player comes within one chunk from one, which is when it will attempt to gain altitude, but keep shooting at the player. When wandering, Ghasts will make peaceful medium pitched sounds, but when fighting, it's sounds will sound more like high pitched screeching noises. .
To defeat a Ghast, if you think you can get close enough, then it is best to stay behind walls as much as possible until you get close, when it will fly upwards, which is the easiest time to defeat a Ghast with a ranged weapon like a Bow. If you do not think that you can get within range to get the Ghast to fly upwards, then it is probably best to defeat it by knocking its Fire Charges back at it by left clicking while holding any item, which will not always hit, but is effective at defending and attacking at the same time. Alternatively, if you have been found by multiple Ghasts, then it is best to try and get one of the Ghasts between you and the other Ghast, and use the sword technique until one of them is defeated.
 Ghasts' hit-boxes are off; their heads "no-clip", thus you need to attack the tentacles in order to defeat one.
 Ghasts cannot destroy Iron Bars or Cobblestone.
 Ghasts will cancel their Fire Charge if the player that they are attacking moves behind a block.
 Ghasts always look and sound the same, no matter how bright it is, or where they are in relation to a player.
 If you move your cursor onto a Ghast's fire charge, then the box around your equipped item will light up.
 Ghasts, if spawned in The End, will automatically be hostile towards the Ender Dragon.
 In snapshots between 1.4.7 and 1.5, the fireball's texture was accidently changed to a diamond helmet and back again.
 The Ghast's sounds are C418's cat. .
 On Minecraft: Pocket Edition the Ghasts only drop Gunpowder and Ghast Tears.
Ghast/Gallery.
Ghasts are huge, floating Nether mobs that shoot explosive fireballs at the player.
To spawn naturally, ghasts require a solid block below them and 5×4×5 free space in order to spawn, and only spawn in the Nether, in any light level.
Ghasts drop 0-2 gunpowder and sometimes a ghast tear. They also drop 5 experience when killed by a player or tamed wolf.
Ghasts normally float around the Nether with their eyes and mouth closed and periodically make high-pitched, cat- or infant-like sounds. They open their red eyes and mouth when attacking. They make a chirp-like noise when shooting and scream pitifully when taking damage. The sounds that ghasts make have a minimum intensity regardless of their distance, meaning that they can sound closer than they actually are. They have a size of 4×4×4 blocks, as well as tentacles about the size of a player, although longer and skinnier.
Ghasts have an extreme attack range, explosive attack power, and mobility. Unlike most other aggressive mobs, the ghast does not have a pursuit mode - it does not attempt to draw closer to the player when at long range (and likewise is not particularly likely to float away). Compared to other mobs, the ghast has a very long search range and can target a player up to 100 blocks away. When the player comes within about sixteen blocks, the ghast will open fire and attempt to gain altitude.
Ghasts will not fire at the player without a line-of-sight, which can be blocked by solid transparent blocks.
The ghast's fireball attack has a straight trajectory unaffected by gravity and a theoretically infinite range. Fireballs do not track the player once fired, are slow, and can be deflected if the player hits them with a projectile or melee attack. At close range, it is one of the most powerful mob attacks in Minecraft, fourth only to the explosion of a creeper, the melee attack of an iron golem, and the explosion of a wither skull. A direct hit will deal 6 () damage from the impact, and up to 9 (), 17 ( × 8.5), or 25 ( × 12.5) damage from the explosion, depending on difficulty. When two ghast fireballs collide, one is deflected to a random direction while the other explodes upon impact. Blocks are also set on fire by the explosion. If a ghast is killed, any fireball launched by that ghast will disappear.
The minimum blast resistance required to absorb all blast force of the ghast's fireballs is 20.17 (about the equivalent of a cobweb).
There is a way to summon ghast fireballs via /summon. It is used with /summon Fireball, but in order to actually see it or move it via hitting it you need to do /summon Fireball ~ ~3 ~ {direction:[0.0,0.0,0.0]}. There is also a way to amplify the explosion by doing /summon Fireball ~ ~3 ~ {ExplosionPower:*,direction:[0.0,0.0,0.0]}. * = Any number, 1 is the default ghast explosion. At high levels it can destroy even blocks that can't be destroyed via explosions (liquids, obsidian, even bedrock), however the higher the power the more memory is used, and the longer it takes to load the explosion, so caution is advised at powers above 100.
In Creative, you can go inside of a ghast by falling through the top of it or flying up underneath it. If you stand on top of the head you will see inside of it.
Ghasts can cause other mobs to attack it, but the ghast will never target other mobs; it will only target the player. This is because they have no pursuit mode. Unlike other mobs, ghasts will fly away when hit in Creative.
If the player is able to fly inside an aggressive ghast, the mob may die of shooting fireballs at itself. They are also careless about shooting at short range where they will be hurt by the blast.
Ghasts are the largest naturally occurring mob by volume - they are eight times as big as the largest natural variation of slime, but the Ender dragon is longer.
If a ghast is trapped in a 1-thick cube, it will shoot fireballs through the cube. This is because all mobs that shoot, spawn the projectile one block in front of it to prevent the projectile from hitting the mob.
On rare occasions, a ghast will spawn in such a way as to see through blocks (usually trapped on all sides in a tight area). When this happens and the ghast has “line of sight" through those blocks, it will launch a fireball in the player's direction. This can be extremely confusing, causing the player to brace for impact, even if no ghast can be seen. If the player stays in one place, the fireballs can eventually bore a hole through Netherrack to blow up the player.
Some rooms in Nether fortresses are big enough for a ghast to spawn in. However, this ghast will likely be trapped, as there may not be an exit large enough for it to fit through.
If you tweak a mob spawner to spawn ghasts, the model inside the spawner is larger than the frame.
Ghasts can be killed in one shot by any bow with at least Power I, if you charge the bow fully.
C418 revealed in an AMA on Reddit that ghast sounds are taken from his pet cat, which he makes when disturbed while sleeping.
In the game files, there is a sound file called "affectionate_scream", that is currently unused.
Two ghasts are featured in the LEGO set "Minecraft Micro World - The Nether", along with a Zombie Pigman.
Ghasts, along with guardians, are the only hostile mobs that flee when attacked.
Unlike a blaze fireball, a ghast fireball that hits the player directly will not set the player on fire.
A rebound Ghast Fireball will instantly kill a Ghast on impact, no matter how much health the Ghast has.
A ghast preparing to shoot a fireball.
A ghast up close, shooting a fireball at the player.
A ghast opens its red eyes when it spits out fireballs.
Ghasts. (Note old snowball texture).
