 The Guardian is a hostile mob which can only spawn underwater in Water Dungeons. Its eye will always look toward a nearby player or a squid. There is a mini-boss variant, called the Elder Guardian.
The Guardian attacks by sending out a large laser beam which harms the player. In addition, Guardians can target and damage players who are riding in boats; however once the player is out of range, the Guardian's laser will disengage from the player, and deal no damage. Guardians will swim around in water, attacking any players or squids that come into sight. They swim in abrupt charges, moving their tail rapidly when doing so. Unlike squids, Guardians will not die outside of water, instead they will jump and flail around, making wet, squishy noises. They will quickly move towards the nearest water source, at which point they swim away. When swimming, their spikes retract and they don't deal damage when attacked. When not swimming they sink.
Guardians' eyes will follow and stare at any nearby players, and will always look directly at who they're attacking. This makes them the first mob with dynamic eyes.
Guardians are very resistant to melee attacks when under water, as the player will not be able to quickly approach the Guardian due to the water's slowing effect. Guardians will swim away when approached by a player it is targeting, and the Guardian will deal  of damage every time it is hit when its spikes are extended. If cornered, the Guardian will usually extend its spikes and fire at the player, even at point blank range.
The Guardians are resistant to fire damage, but if somehow brought on land, they sometimes take fall damage from their swift movement.
If the player must fight a Guardian in melee, they should try to corner it and hope for the best; or else try to trick it into swimming within melee range repeatedly.
The Guardian cannot shoot as fast as a player with a bow can, so a skilled player will be able to shoot the Guardian, and then hide to break the beam's lock, repeating until the Guardian is dead. If the Guardian is in shallow water the player(s) can use a fishing rod to pull it out of the water where the player(s) can then kill it using melee attacks without being shot at or hurt by the spikes.
Fighting Guardians is incredibly dangerous without armor. Armor is essential to combating Guardians, especially within the Water Dungeons. Entering their territory without armor will almost always lead to a swift death, even if armed with a sword or bow and arrow.
This is the first mob with dynamic eyes.
If you have full Diamond armor, the Guardian's laser will do approx. 1 heart () of damage.
The Guardian's laser sound can be heard up to 100 blocks away.
 Guardians take fall damage, and it takes 32 blocks for them to fall to their death.
A Guardian's laser. (Note: it is attacking a Squid).
The Guardian's eye looks at the Player.
Add a photo to this gallery.
The Guardian is an underwater hostile mob.
Guardians only spawn naturally in and around ocean monuments. They require water to spawn.
Guardians spawn less often in ocean open to the sky than they do in covered areas (i.e. inside the monument). Specifically, spawning will fail 95% of the time if the spawning water block is below sea level (Y=63 by default), all blocks between the spawning water block and sea level are liquid or fully transparent, and the block at sea level has a view of the sky. Above sea level, spawning will fail 95% of the time if the spawning water block has a view of the sky.
Guardians drop 0 to 1 prismarine crystals, 0 to 2 prismarine shards, and 0 to 1 raw fish.
Guardians have a 2.5% chance of dropping a rare drop when killed by the player. There is a 60% chance a rare drop will be a raw fish, 25% chance it will be raw salmon, 2% chance of clownfish, and 13% chance of pufferfish. These are the same probabilities as fishing.
Looting increases the maximum prismarine shard drop by one per level. The chance of getting a raw fish drop is 50% with Looting I (2/4), 60% with Looting II (3/5), and 67% with Looting III (4/6). The chance of getting a rare drop is also increased by 1 percentage point per level.
The prismarine crystals drop will only happen if the common raw fish drop fails, with the same chances as the raw fish drop. This works out to a base chance of 22% (2/9), Looting I giving 25% (4/16), Looting II dropping down to 24% (6/25), and Looting III giving 22% (8/36), which is the same as the base chance.
If a guardian dies while ablaze, it will still drop a raw fish or salmon.
Guardians also drop 10 experience when killed by a player or tamed wolf.
Guardians swim around in water, attacking any players or squid that come into sight. They swim in abrupt charges, moving their tail rapidly when doing so. When swimming, their spikes retract. When not swimming they sink slowly and their spikes extend.
The guardian's eye follows and stares at any nearby players, and always looks directly at its target. The eye still follows a completely unarmored player under the effects of a potion of invisibility, but the guardian won't attack them. However, guardians still attack squids under that same status effect.
When out of water, guardians angrily squeak at the player while flopping about. They do not suffocate in air and can live indefinitely out of water. They always extend their spikes when out of water. They will quickly move towards the nearest water source, at which point they swim away.
Guardians have two methods of attack: a laser and a defensive thorn like attack. Unlike most other hostile mobs, a guardian will not follow the player if they move out of sight. Instead, it will simply continue swimming until the player becomes visible again, and will then start to charge its attack.
The laser takes several seconds to charge, doing no damage in the meantime, and changing from purple to bright yellow. Once charged, the beam abruptly ends and deals 6 () damage on normal difficulty. Guardians will swim around for a few seconds before firing again. If the target comes near the guardian while it is firing its beam, it will stop firing and swim away until it is at a comfortable range, at which point it will continue attacking. The beam cannot be dodged, and has a maximum range of approximately 15 blocks. Once the player is out of range, or if the beam is obstructed by solid blocks, the guardian's beam will disengage from the player, and deal no damage.
The guardian's laser is able to penetrate armor to some extent, making strong tiers of armor with enchantments even more essential. While a guardian does 9 () of damage (hard difficulty) to an unarmored player, it deals 5 () to a player in diamond armor - one would expect that the attack would get reduced to 2 () of damage. That means that while guardian attack stats do not look very impressive, it still deals more damage to players wearing armor than other mobs with higher stats, although using enchanted armor can still reduce damage further.
Guardians deal 2 () damage each time it is hit when its pufferfish-type spikes are extended. If cornered, the guardian will usually extend its spikes and fire at the player, even at point blank range.
A guardian's eye is actually the "head" part of the mob's model. This gives the illusion of a dynamic eye.
Underwater, guardians emit deep, growl-like sounds, but on land they emit high-pitched squeaks. This probably reflects the fact that water can alter sounds.
Guardians' laser-beam attacks are affected by the potion of strength, which normally only affects melee attacks of mobs.
When placed or spawned on a slime block, guardians will start bouncing and continue, each bounce higher than the last, until each bounce brings the guardian to 17 blocks height.
In the image of the 3D model, 'jeb' is written on the picture.
If summoned with {NoAI:1}, the guardian's eye still follows the player.
Jeb's Instagram mob reveal.
The inside of a guardian (spikes extended).
A guardian's "eye" follows players at any position.
A guardian attacking a squid.
A group of guardians defending their monument.
Size comparison between a guardian and its elder variant.
The guardian texture, with "jeb" written in the corner.
