 Mooshrooms are passive mobs introduced in the Minecraft Beta 1.9 Pre-Release. When a player right-clicks a mooshroom with shears, they drop red mushrooms and will transform into a regular cow. There is also a rare chance that it will split into two cows when sheared. If one uses an empty bowl on a mooshroom, the bowl becomes filled with mushroom stew. This can be used as an infinite food source. If a mooshroom is killed, it will drop the same items as a regular cow. Mooshrooms will only spawn in Mushroom biomes, and as of Minecraft 1.0.0, they will sometimes spawn on generated Mushroom Islands. Like cows, mooshrooms will follow players holding wheat, and enter love mode if fed it.
Mooshrooms resemble ordinary cows, but are red with white spots and have Red Mushrooms on their backs and heads. Another difference is their eyes; while cows contain the whites of their eyes, Mooshrooms' eyes are completely  black.
When a Mooshroom is sheared, a ring of smoke forms around it for 0.8 seconds.
The Mooshroom is the only breedable mob excluded from the PS3 tutorial world that has been implemented in the PS3 edition.
A baby mooshroom.
A mooshroom next to a Cow.
A mooshroom being sheared. Note that it turned into a cow instantly.
Mooshroom spawned on a mooshroom.
A mooshroom Spawn Egg.
A Mooshroom's face.
Add a photo to this gallery.
Mooshrooms are unique variations of cows.
Mooshrooms spawn on mycelium blocks in mushroom island biomes in herds of 4 to 8.
If a pair of mooshrooms are given wheat, they will breed.
Feeding wheat to a baby mooshroom will speed up its growing time by 10% of the remaining time.
Mooshrooms drop 0-2 leather and 1-3 raw beef (1-3 steak if killed while on fire). Shearing one will drop 5 red mushrooms and turn the mooshroom into a normal cow, emitting smoke particles. Mooshrooms also drop 1-3 experience when killed by a player or tamed wolf.
Besides giving milk, mooshrooms can be milked with bowls to give mushroom stew.
Mooshrooms are 1.6875 blocks tall, 0.625 blocks wide, and 1.5 blocks long.
Mooshrooms tend to walk around slowly and aimlessly, breathing and mooing occasionally. They also tend to jump off high cliffs and make no attempt to stay out of water. During a rain or thunderstorm, mooshrooms can be seen taking cover under structures or trees to avoid getting wet.
A mooshroom will follow players holding wheat, and in doing so may run off cliffs and into damaging blocks.
The name "Mooshroom" is a portmanteau for "moo" (which itself is an onomatopoeia of a cow's sound) and "mushroom".
The first image released of the Mooshroom.
A series of Mooshroom spawned on top of a red huge mushroom.
A baby Mooshroom.
A few Mooshrooms next to an ocean.
A Mooshroom in a minecart.
Cordyceps fungi.
