 Silverfish are small, bug-like mobs that have silver skin and black eyes that hide in special blocks found in strongholds. These blocks look identical to stone bricks, cobblestone, or regular stone but take slightly more time to mine than normal with a pickaxe, and will take noticeably less time to mine without one. When the block is mined, the Silverfish will pop out and attack. Destroying the blocks via Creepers or TNT simply kills the silverfish. In regular gameplay, Silverfish blocks occur rarely. If left alone, silverfish can re-enter some blocks, namely cobblestone, regular stone, and stone bricks.
As of 1.0.0 (and possibly earlier), Silverfish can cause damage to a player. The coding behind them allows this to occur when a silverfish is touching a player and a change of the Y-coordinate of either the player or silverfish occurs. This can easily kill a player, since - in a confined space - receiving damage causes the player to perform a short "hop," which counts as a Y-cord change, which allows for the silverfish to damage the player again as the player is coming back down from the initial  damage hop. Formerly, Silverfish could not damage the player directly, but would scurry towards the player and push them around, with the tendency to be aggravating and potentially dangerous (e.g. when around Lava/Fire).
When attacked (but not killed), Silverfish may awaken other Silverfish blocks within a 21x11x21 block area around them. This can lead to a terrifying swarm if there are enough in the vicinity, and an uncontrolled swarm can quickly destroy dozens of stone bricks within a Stronghold. They scurry away after the player moves a short distance. In addition to the special blocks, Monster Spawners that spawn silverfish can also be found in strongholds.
Silverfish can spawn from silverfish blocks and monster spawners. They are also able to spawn, albeit rarely, underground in extreme hill biomes, inside of certain blocks. In the latter case, they can only spawn in light level 11 or lower, except on top of stone blocks, where they can spawn at any light level. They also cannot spawn within a five block distance of any player. These restrictions only apply when spawning from a monster spawner, and not from a Silverfish block.
When attacked, Silverfish may awaken nearby Silverfish blocks. This can lead to a terrifying swarm if there are enough in the vicinity, and in which an uncontrolled swarm can quickly destroy dozens of stone bricks within a Stronghold. They scurry away after the player moves a short distance. They do not have the same sounds as spiders since the 1.0.0 update.
It is advised to avoid conflicts with silverfish altogether, as they will simply generate a massive swarm that can easily out-gun an inexperienced player. If the player does, however, choose to challenge silverfish, it is advised that they wear armor as silverfish can quickly deal massive amounts of damage as the swarm grows. Melee weapons are advised as silverfish are the smallest mob that naturally spawns. If the player is experienced with a bow, then using ranged combat may reduce the size of a swarm.
A simple tactic to combat a swarm of silverfish is to simply build a two-block high pillar and attack from there, as silverfish do not have any range and only deal damage via contact.
The I.D. for the Silverfish block is 97, and can be hacked in through mods or by using the /give command in multiplayer, levels with cheats activated, or through LAN.
Silverfish have been included in the Xbox 360 version, but are planned to be implemented in the "Adventure Update".
Silverfish, along with Endermen, Had a placeholder sound in Beta 1.8 but they got their own sounds on the 1.0 Update. Before 1.0, Silverfish shared the same sound with Spiders.
Silverfish can be spawned in Creative Mode using the Silverfish Spawn Egg. The silverfish blocks can also be used and are found under the decoration blocks. If a silverfish block is destroyed in Creative mode, a silverfish will still pop out.
Silverfish in a Stronghold.
Add a photo to this gallery.
Silverfish are small, bug-like hostile mobs.
Silverfish have no drops other than 5 experience when killed by a player or tamed wolf.
Silverfish spawn from broken monster eggs, which generate in strongholds and extreme hills biomes.
When spawning from monster spawners, they can only spawn in light level 11 or lower, except on top of stone and its variants, where they can spawn at any light level. They also cannot spawn within a 5 block distance of any player.
Silverfish are the second smallest mobs in Minecraft, after the endermite; their height is less than that of a slab. Because of this, they take suffocation damage from standing on soul sand.
Silverfish have the ability to "call" other silverfish in the area upon being hit. These silverfish have the ability to see through walls, and will pathfind until they reach the player.
When idle, silverfish will enter a nearby stone block, transforming it into a monster egg.
When they are attacked or take poison damage, they may cause other silverfish within a 21×11×21 area to break out of their monster eggs (unless they are killed in one shot).
In real life, silverfish are small, relatively harmless, wingless arthropods that are often found in dark areas in buildings and the wooden pilings of seaside piers and trees. They are infamous for damaging paper-based products. During cold temperatures they are known to enter a sort of "hibernation" by expelling most of the water in their body. During this state they greatly resemble small stones or gravel, likely inspiring their Minecraft counterparts.
A silverfish.
A swarm of silverfish.
Silverfish spawner room in a stronghold.
A silverfish riding a minecart.
Many silverfish in a village. (Click for animation).
A giant stone silverfish as seen in the 13w26a banner.
Endermite.
Silverfish are small, hostile mobs that look more like a strange caterpillar than a fish. They drop nothing when they’re killed, which just makes them more annoying to deal with.
Silverfish only occur in strongholds, making them the rarest mobs in game, after the Ender dragon and spider jockey. The silverfish occupy stone blocks, which look exactly like their normal counterpart. There are 3 types of stone silverfish blocks. Cobblestone, stone and stone brick blocks.
In addition to being inside some stone blocks, silverfish can spawn from the monster spawners inside the strongholds. However, unlike other monsters that spawn from spawners, silverfish cannot spawn within 5 blocks of a player.
When one of those silverfish blocks is mined, the silverfish will pop out and attack the player, causing half a heart of damage. This may seem weak and harmless, but a silverfish takes 2 strikes with a diamond sword to be killed and if a silverfish isn’t killed fast, it’ll ‘call’ other silverfish hiding in other blocks within a distance of 21x11x21 blocks around the silverfish. Before you know it, a huge swarm of silverfish could charge you and overwhelm even well geared players.
If a player manages to get away a short distance from the silverfish, any silverfish that are left alive will occupy any of the three types of stone, if they’re available to them, waiting to be dug up or ‘called’ upon by other silverfish again.
It’s quite easy to find out if a stone contains a silverfish. They may look the same, but the time it takes to mine those rocks is longer when you use a pickaxe and shorter when you use anything else. Simply test out the rock with a pickaxe and leave it alone if you notice it takes longer to mine it.
Getting rid of silverfish inside rocks isn’t too difficult either, all it requires is some brute force, namely a creeper or TNT. The explosion will take out the silverfish with the stone.
