Villagers, formerly known as Testificates, are passive NPCs (Non-Player Characters) that spawn and move around in Villages. They have different roles, such as priests, butchers, blacksmiths, farmers, generics and librarians and spawn in their respective buildings. They possess large, bald heads, green eyes, uni-brows, and long, squidward-like noses.
Villagers are considered as one of the most intelligent of all peaceful mobs, however, there are some factors that they are unaware of or pay no attention to. Villagers realize the day-night cycle as well. Villagers are not fond of water, and unlike the other peaceful mobs, will immediately attempt to find an escape route. Villagers will attempt to avoid all undead mobs, however, they do not attempt to escape any attackers. Unlike other mobs, villagers do not notice when they are set on fire, making any source of fire extremely dangerous to a village's population. Villagers will not run when they are on fire as well, showing no attempt to put the fire out.
Villagers only spawn in villages, which can be located only in the flattest (or close to flat) biomes- desert biomes, savannas, and plains. When a villager notices a zombie, they immediately begin to run away from them. Villagers are fast enough to escape a zombie, however, this will not always protect them. When it becomes nighttime, all villagers move in-doors to safety. However, there is a flaw in this behavior, whenever it is raining outside, villagers still realize it as day. Zombies, however, will not die because it is raining, and the sun is not out. This can cause some villagers to die.
A common sight in a village would be villagers facing each other, assuming the human-like characteristic of "talking". Villagers are also known to stare at paintings and other objects and appear to be thinking. When a player attacks a villager they have steam coming from their heads, most-likely indicating anger or frustration. As of 1.6, villagers produce noises (sounding similar to a "hmmm", a grunt, or a humming sound). They make noises on several occasions, when breeding is activated, when struck by a player, or when you trade with one.
Villagers are able to be traded with in the game for various items depending on their "profession" or type of villager. The currency that they handle are emeralds. Some villagers will trade for emeralds, while others will take emeralds and give items. Farmer type villagers known for their brown clothing are known to trade items related to farming, such as Wheat, Carrots, Potatoes, and seeds of Melons for emeralds or vice versa. The butcher type known for the white apron will trade for meat such as Pork, Beef, and Chicken. It is far more common for the trade to require the raw version of the meat. Priests which can be recognized by their full purple clothing trade for ender pearls and eyes of the ender, and also allow the player to buy enchanted items, by trade an unchanted version of the item, in addition to a few emeralds as the cost of enchanting the item. The smith type of villager trades for armor and tools and weapons. Lastly, the Librarian villager is know for his all white clothing and "smart" look, buys paper and sells book and navigational related items, such as Bookshelves and Compasses. .
Villagers all start with one trade agreement. Once the player does this trade and then closes the trading interface, the villager will have a "thinking" type animation and come up with another trade. This does two things, first it allows more trading options, up to a maximum of 5 per villager, and second, it resets the trade. Each trade will be able to be used 3-5 times until it must be reset again. The villager will only reset if the final or "newest" trade is completed at least one time. Once all five are unlocked, continuing the last trade will continue to reset the trades, and also has a small chance of replacing an existing trade with a new one.
Trading is one of the fastest ways to get emeralds legitimately in survival mode without the use of cheats, as farming animals and crops are far faster than digging for emeralds. This allows players to constantly trade and renew trades that yield emeralds to the player. This is also known sometimes as "farming emeralds" or "emerald bartering.".
As of Minecraft 1.8 snapshot, the villagers trading got a complete overhaul. Villagers could now have several trades when they are spawned giving the player more flexibliity when trading.
A player's popularity can be gained or decreased in many methods, and one example is if the player has a popularity below -15, iron golems will become hostile towards the player forever. Popularity can be gained by trading, breeding, etc., but can be decreased by attacking Villagers and/or Iron Golems. A players popularity can be high in one village, yet, low in another.
Zombie Villagers are aggressive mobs that appeared in Minecraft's Pretty Scary Update (Version 1.4). They make up 5% of zombies that spawn in the Overworld. They will also appear after a Villager is killed by a Zombie during a village siege, 50% on Normal and 100% on Hard. If a Baby Villager is killed during a siege, it will also become a Baby Zombie villager. Baby Zombie Villagers are faster than their grown-up counterparts and will not age. Zombie Villagers can be returned to normal Villagers if weakened using a Splash Potion of Weakness, and then fed a Golden Apple. They will appear to shudder while being cured. It is best to place Zombie Villagers in a sort of "prison cell" structure with a bed and iron bars while curing it. This is because the iron bars and bed make the villager cure about 4% faster. Zombie Villagers take approximately 180 seconds to cure under normal circumstances. A zombie villager has all the behaverals and characteristics of regular zombies, such as being able to wear armor. Iron Golems will still attack them, unless they are cured.
As of 13w22a/1.6.1, Villagers will now make sounds. In addition, a splash on the title screen can say "HURNERJSGER?", which is what villagers will sound like when idle.
Although Villager NPCs are currently as simple as other passive mobs, they appear to have very basic intelligent coding already implemented. Before, if the player opens the door to their home and leave it open, they will likely soon move out the doorway. However, once outside, they may wander out into the wilderness. As of 1.2 update, they now automatically go inside at night.
In Beta 1.9 Pre-release's files, there is a texture for average Villagers, which wear brown robes. However, this spot seems to be filled by the Farmer type instead, with no Villager types spawning at all.
Different colors indicate different types of Villagers. Brown indicates a farmer, purple indicates a priest, white indicates a librarian, a villager with a black apron is a blacksmith and a villager with a white apron is a butcher. A villager with green robes was going to be a regular villager, but it is now replaced with a villager with brown robes (a farmer).
The textures for the Librarian Villager, Priest Villager, the unused Villager in green robes and Witches have a "hood" next to their head, where a mob's hat texture would be, but it does not appear in the game.
When you stare at a villager, and the villager sees you, it will nod.
As of 1.2, villagers are actively pursued and killed by zombies.
Since 1.2, villagers can now have children, which are smaller versions of the adults.
Children run faster than normal Villagers, and have the same hit-box as an adult Villager, even though their texture is smaller.
Occasionally, children don't go inside houses at night.
Only a child can take a rose from an Iron Golem.
When there are 15 or more villagers an Iron Golem has a chance to spawn.
Since the 12w21a snapshot, it is possible to trade with villagers by right clicking them. This way, it is possible to get normally uncraftable items like Bottle o' Enchanting and Chain Armor, as well as rare items like diamonds.
In the 2012 Halloween update, Zombies infect Villagers and turn them into Zombie Villagers.
All Villagers go inside their homes at night, and sometimes randomly open and close the door.
As of a recent update, Villagers will have babies if you right-click them with a villager spawn egg.
If a Villager is killed by a zombie and is turned into one, regardless of its role in life (e.g., librarian, blacksmith), it will be wearing the clothing of regular zombies.
In snapshot 14w02b villagers can have more professions (e.g. blacksmiths can be Tool Smiths, Weapon Smiths and Armorers).
In snapshot 14w04a Farmer villagers can destroy full grown plants, and replant them.
On April 1st, 2014, Mojang announced that the Villagers had taken over minecraft and caused everyone's skin to look like a villager, as an April Fools joke. Players were unable to change their skins during that time. During this time, everyone also had Element Animation's T.E.A.V.S.R.P. (The Element Animation Villager Sounds Resource Pack) automatically installed .
When you put a ladder behind a door, The villager will try to exit out the door but instead, he goes up the ladder and when they reach the top, they spin in circles.
Villagers have been portrayed as being stupid by many animators, such as those who work at the YouTube group "Element Animation".
 In per 0.10 update, villagers who spawn automatically when first enter, they will walk on fast legs.
 As of 15w35a ,Zombie Villagers will have new textures and each texture for each type of Villager.
 They are also known as "Squidward" because of their long noses. Squidward Tentacles is a character from the television show "SpongeBob SquarePants". Notch himself has even agreed that they look like "caveman Squidwards".
 They have also been nicknamed Ki-Adi-Mundi in rare cases because of their small resemblance to the Star Wars character.
When they see a hole, they randomly start spinning around in circles, trying to catch its "tail".
See here.
A Villager (previously called a Testificate) is an intelligent passive NPC that the player can trade with.
Villagers will not despawn even if the player wanders away from them.
Villagers naturally spawn in villages inside various buildings.
Villagers can breed, spawning baby villagers. After exactly 20 minutes, the baby villager will grow up to an adult. See this section for more information.
Villagers will spawn if a player uses a splash potion of weakness on a zombie villager and then feeds it a regular golden apple. It will then shake and turn into a villager within 5 minutes. During the change the zombie villager turning villager can still burn in the sun.
Villagers have no drops.
Upon spawning, villagers will leave their homes and begin to explore the village. Generally, they wander aimlessly inside the village during the day. They may go indoors or outdoors. Occasionally, two villagers may stop, and turn to look at each other, in a behavior called socializing, in which they will stare at a mob (sometimes even a zombie) or another villager for a few seconds at a time. In the case of players, they will continuously stare at them as long as the player is close enough, unless the villager tries to get into a house at night or run away from a zombie. When a player attacks a villager, the villager will not run away, but angry particles will fly out from the villager if it is in a village.
Villagers will not willingly fall off high cliffs that would kill them, but may occasionally take fall damage. They will not stay away from fire or cacti, nor change their behavior around them, as with most mobs.
At night, or during a storm, villagers will run inside, closing doors behind them, staying indoors until the morning. In the morning, the villagers will head outside, fleeing from any remaining zombies. Once the zombies are gone, the villagers will resume normal behavior.
There is evidence that villagers are prone to overcrowding certain areas of a village while leaving other areas completely empty. There is speculation that villagers will crowd predictably into set areas; however, exactly which areas has still not been discovered. It has been noticed they crowd their church/watchtower very often at certain times of the day. The overcrowding can lead to villagers swarming into a few houses at night rather than spreading themselves. The sheer amount of villagers trying to enter such a small area can result in a portion of the villagers taking more time to enter the safety of their homes. In extreme cases, some villagers will become stranded outside. There is no known way to prevent this type of overcrowding.
Villagers have eight inventory slots. Villagers will not intentionally seek out items to pick up, but they will collect any bread, carrots, potatoes, wheat, or seeds they happen to come within range of. These are the only items they are able to pick up. If a player and a villager are in the pickup range of an item at the same time, the player will always pick it up first.
If a villager has enough food in one inventory stack (6 bread or 24 carrots or potatoes, or 18 wheat for Farmers only) and sees a villager without enough food in one inventory stack (3 bread or 12 carrots or potatoes for non-Farmers; 15 bread, 60 carrots or potatoes, or 45 wheat for Farmers), he may decide to share food with that villager.
To share, a villager finds his first inventory stack with at least 4 bread, carrots, or potatoes or with at least 6 wheat, and then throws half the stack (rounded down) in the direction of the target villager. When wheat is shared, it is first crafted to bread which may result in 1 or 2 less than half the stack being shared.
Adult and baby brown-robed villagers, both farmers and other careers, will tend crops within the village boundary. Villagers far enough outside the boundary of any village will also tend nearby crops.
Farmland to be tended is found by seeking for certain blocks up to 15 blocks away from the villager in X and Z and up to 1 away in Y (a 31×31×3 area total). If a brown-robed villager does not have enough food in one stack in his inventory (15 bread, 60 carrots or potatoes, or 45 wheat) and finds fully-grown wheat, carrots, or potatoes, he will move to the crop block and break it.
 If a brown-robed villager has any seeds, carrots, or potatoes in his inventory and finds an air block above farmland, he will move to it and plant a crop. They will always plant from the first eligible slot in their inventory.
Baby villagers will sprint around, entering and leaving houses at will. They will also chase each other around the village to simulate that they are playing tag. They will sometimes stop sprinting to stare at an Iron Golem. If the Iron Golem is holding a poppy, the children will cautiously take the flower from its hands.
Unlike other breed-able mobs, the parents and child have no personal interactions other than socializing.
Zombies will find villagers from up to 42 block radius (even when the villager is invisible), and will attempt to break down doors. Zombies will only successfully break doors if the difficulty is set to hard; although, only a fraction of zombies spawned in hard mode can break doors. This also applies to zombie pigmen if they path find through a door. Villagers will run away from zombies, which attempt to attack villagers. The villager's only "natural" defense are the Iron Golems, which protect villagers from nearby mobs.
Zombies will kill villagers, or convert them to zombie villagers. The chance that the villager will become a zombie villager on death is 0% on Easy, 50% on Normal, and 100% on Hard. Baby villagers can be infected by zombies as well.
Villagers will also run from zombie pigmen.
When lightning strikes between 3-4 blocks of a villager, it will turn into a witch.
Villagers will mate depending on the number of valid doors. Villagers will then mate until the number of adult villagers equals or is more than 35% of the number of doors. Any remaining children will grow up as usual, resulting in a total number of adult villagers somewhere above one third of the number of nearby wooden doors. The type of villager that the child is doesn't depend on what type the parents are.
A valid door is any door within the village radius where the number of "outside" spaces within 5 blocks in a straight line on one side of the door is not the same as the number of "outside" spaces within 5 blocks on the other side of the door. A space is considered to be "outside" if it has nothing but transparent blocks above it all the way to the sky.
The game engine periodically takes a census to determine the current population of the village. All villagers within the horizontal boundary of the village and within 5 vertical blocks of the center will be counted as part of the population to determine if continued villager mating is allowed. However, any villager within the horizontal boundary of the village and within a vertical distance of 32 blocks downwards of the center of the village will attempt to enter mating mode as long as there is at least one villager within the boundary. If two villagers simultaneously enter mating mode while they are close to one another, they will mate with each other and produce a child.
Additionally, villagers must be "willing" in order to breed. After mating, they will no longer be willing, and must be made willing again.
Villagers may become willing when the player trades with them. Willingness is granted the first time a new offer is traded, or at a one-in-five chance on subsequent trades. Green particles will appear if the villager becomes willing by trading. This will not cause them to immediately seek out a mate, however.
Villagers can also become willing by having either 3 bread, 12 carrots or 12 potatoes in one stack in their inventory. Any villager with an excess of food (usually farmers) will throw food to other villagers, allowing them to pick it up and obtain enough food to become willing. You can also throw bread, carrots, or potatoes at the villagers yourself to encourage breeding. Villagers will consume the required food upon becoming willing.
Each villager has a profession, which can be identified by their clothing. Villagers also have careers specific to their profession. The player can identify a villager's career by reading the title at the top of the trading interface. Below is a table listing the various villagers, with their careers in relation to their professions, as well as the IDs specifying these.
Farmer Villager.
Librarian Villager.
Priest Villager.
Blacksmith Villager.
Butcher Villager.
Zombie Villager (hostile).
The trading system is a gameplay mechanic that allows players to trade emeralds for items and vice-versa with villagers.Their trades can be good or bad, depending on what the cost is and what items you might get. Trading is only available for adult villagers; the player cannot trade with baby villagers.
Right-clicking a villager will allow a player to trade with them, and display their career. Villagers will make offers based on their profession and career, and will only make trades based on whatever offers they are making. Different offers may be viewed by pressing the left and right buttons next to the currently displayed offer. Most offers involve emerald as a currency, and some item pertinent to the villager's profession and career. Trading allows the acquisition of uncommon items that would otherwise be fairly difficult to obtain, such as chain armor. It is also the only legitimate method of acquiring a Bottle o' Enchanting in survival mode. When villagers get a new trade, purple particles and green cross particles appear.
After trading a new offer once, the villager will open a new tier of trades after a short period of time. After 2-12 times an offer is used, the villager will lock the trade offer. When this happens, you will have to use another new trade offer in the villager's window once (or several times if it is already used once), and then wait for a short time. If green particles appear, all trades reopen. There is a maximum number of tiers each villager can possess, varying by career. Once the villager has unlocked all tiers, it will not open any new ones. However, you will still be able to renew all offers by trading.
When a villager gives off particles from a new trade, they get 10 seconds of regeneration, which gives them 8 ().
In Pocket Edition, trading is currently not available.
The villagers were inspired by the shop keepers in Dungeon Master 2.
Notch has agreed that villagers look like "cavemen squidwards".
Originally, the mobs populating villages were to be pigmen.
Using the command /gamerule mobGriefing false will prevent farmer Villagers from harvesting and replanting crops.
Baby farmer villagers can harvest and replant crops as well as adult farmers.
You can use a name tag on an adult villager directly upon exiting a Nether portal, any other time will cause the trading interface to open and leave the villager unnamed.
Villagers can see invisible players.
In the Pocket Edition of the game, villagers can leave villages. However, once they leave the village, they rarely come back.
After a zombie villager is cured, the villager gets Nausea for 10 seconds (indicated by the purple status effect particles).
When a villager is in love mode, it walks very slowly. However, when a villager runs indoors as the night falls, it runs extremely fast, even faster than the player's walking speed.
On April 1st 2014, Mojang announced that villagers have taken over the skin servers and content delivery networks (CDN) as an April Fools joke. This caused players' current skin to turn into villager skins. This also caused users to be unable to change their skins. Different career villager skins were used, including the unused generic villager (green robe).
Many of the sounds were also changed, supposedly by the villagers. They seem to be similar to a villager talking (with words, rather than their normal sounds). The in-game music has also been altered to include villager like noises, and also features a villager version of the "Game of Thrones" theme on the title screen. The sounds originate from the sound resource pack created by Element Animation, titled The Element Animation Villager Sound Resource Pack (T.E.A.V.S.R.P), which is based on the villagers appearing in their fan videos. The villagers were voiced by Dan Lloyd, Director of Element Animation.
Villager in Beta 1.9-pre1, when villagers had the word "TESTIFICATE" displayed over the head.
A group of villager children socializing together.
The unused Generic Villager in-game.
The 13w22a Banner.
A house full of villagers.
Villagers can still see invisible players.
A priest villager giving bread to a librarian.
A baby zombie villager getting cured.
A baby villager cured from being a zombie.
