 The Activator Rail is a minecart rail that can set off minecarts with TNT as well as drop off any player or entity inside the minecart. The Activator rail must be powered to do this. It acts as a normal rail when it is not powered.
There was a bug in the 13w03a snapshot where it would corrupt if you put 50 Minecarts on it. As of 1.5, this issue has been fixed.
As of 1.8, if a player or mob is in a Minecart that goes on an activated activator rail, it will be automatically be knocked out of it. However the mob can potentially get right back into the Minecart and continue riding it.
An activator rail is a type of rail that can "activate" certain minecarts.
Activator rails can be crafted and previously-placed activator rails can be broken with bare hands or any tool, dropping themselves as items.
An activator rail can be broken with any tool, dropping itself as an item, but a pickaxe is fastest. To break an activator rail, mine it.
An activator rail will also be removed and drop itself as an item if the block beneath it is moved, removed, or destroyed.
An activator rail will also be removed and drop itself as an item if water flows into the activator rail's space.
An activator rail will also be removed and drop itself as an item if a piston tries to move it vertically, or if there is no block beneath it at the new position after a horizontal move.
If lava flows into an activator rail's space, the activator rail will be destroyed without dropping itself as an item.
An activator rail can be used as a rail and as a redstone component.
To place an activator rail, use an activator rail item while pointing at a surface facing the space the activator rail should occupy. An activator rail can be placed on the top of any full solid opaque block (stone, dirt, blocks of gold, etc.), including full-block mechanism components (command blocks, dispensers, droppers, note blocks, and redstone lamps).
An activator rail can be placed on the top of a hopper, upside-down slab, or upside-down stairs.
An activator rail cannot be attached to the side or bottom of any block, but attempting to make such an attachment may cause the activator rail to attach to the top of a block under the destination space. For example, if a fence is on the ground, attempting to attach an activator rail to the side of the fence will cause the activator rail to be attached to the top of the ground next to the fence instead.
When placed, an activator rail will configure itself to line up with any adjacent rails (including detector rails, powered rails, and other activator rails), as well as adjacent rails one block up. If there are two adjacent rails on non-opposite sides, or three or more adjacent rails, an activator rail will line up in the east-west direction. If there are no adjacent rails, an activator rail will line up in the north-south direction (but if a rail is later placed to the east or west, the activator rail will re-orient itself in the east-west direction even if it is already connected to another rail to the north or south). If a rail it would line up with is one block up, an activator rail will slant upwards towards it (with multiple options to slant upwards to, an activator rail "prefers", in order: west, east, south, and north). Other configurations can be created by placing and removing various rails.
Activator rails (and other rails) can be used as "roads" for minecarts. A minecart that enters an activator rail's space from either end of the activator rail will continue to move, losing only a little velocity (which can then be increased again with powered rails). A minecart that enters an activator rail's space from the side will turn east or south (depending on the activator rail's orientation), or in the downward direction for a slanted activator rail.
Activator rails can be used to affect minecarts that travel over them.
An activator rail is a redstone mechanism and can be activated by an adjacent active power component (for example, a redstone torch, a block of redstone, a daylight sensor, etc).
An activator rail is a redstone mechanism and can be activated by an adjacent powered block (strongly-powered or weakly-powered).
An activator rail is a redstone mechanism and can be activated by a powered redstone comparator or redstone repeater facing the activator rail.
An activator rail is a redstone mechanism and can be activated by powered redstone dust configured to point at the activator rail, or a directionless "dot" next to it; an activator rail is not activated by adjacent powered redstone dust which is configured to point in another direction.
An activated activator rail will also activate any adjacent activator rail it is connected to, up to eight activator rails away from the original activation source. Thus a single activation source can activate up to 17 activator rails (one original in the middle and eight on either side). An activated activator rail will not activate adjacent activator rails which it is not connected to.
An activator rail will affect minecarts above it with varying effects. The effects occur as soon as any part of the minecart is on the activator rail.
An active activator rail will eject mobs (including players) from minecarts as if a player had used the sneak control to exit the minecart.
An active activator rail will repeatedly activate command block minecarts — a command block minecart will execute its command every game tick until the command block minecart is no longer on the activator rail.
An active activator rail will disable hopper minecarts — a disabled hopper minecart will not pick up items it travels through until it is enabled by an inactive activator rail (or until it is broken and re-placed).
An active activator rail will prime TNT minecarts — primed TNT minecarts will explode after one second with an explosive power proportional to their speed over the activator rail.
An inactive activator rail will enable hopper minecarts — an enabled hopper minecart will pick up items it travels through until it is disabled by an active activator rail.
An activator rail has the ID name minecraft:activator_rail and is further defined by its block data. An activator rail also has a block state which is expected to replace the functionality of block data in a future version.
An activator rail's block data stores its orientation and activation status.
