 The Anvil is an interactive block that is used to repair items and rename a certain block or item, and combine enchantments on items. The anvil also obeys physics similar to Sand and Gravel however, if an Anvil lands on a un-solid block, such as Sand and Gravel, it will turn into a drop item. If the Anvil lands on a mob or player, it will deal damage relative to how far it fell before hitting the mob or player. Anvils have three states of damage: Normal anvil, slightly damaged anvil, and very damaged anvil. Whenever the Anvil is used, it has a 12% chance of being damaged. Also, dropping the Anvil onto any solid block has a chance to also do damage to it. Despite being able to fall, it cannot be pushed by pistons, making the creation of anvil traps difficult. To do so a single piston is required to have its extended arm beneath the anvil. .
Anvils are special interactive blocks. The original purpose of anvils was to restore items to their original durability. However, later, anvils were able to combine enchantments on items, which became extremely useful for creating powerful weapons and items. Anvils can also be used to rename objects into whatever the player would like to name it. However, all features take up experience to complete the task. Renaming objects reduces the cost of all later work done on the renamed object in the PS3 edition. Also, anvils can be dropped onto players, reducing damage, and most likely killing them.
If a spawn egg is renamed Dinnerbone or Grumm with an Anvil, the mobs spawned will be upside down. Note: This has been fixed as of 1.6.
Anvils are blocks that use the item repair interface to repair and to rename items, as well as to combine enchantments.
An anvil can be mined using any pickaxe. If mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.
Anvils can be used to repair tools and armor, to enchant items with enchanted books, and to rename items and blocks. All of their functions cost experience levels (earned by performing certain actions) and crafting materials.
Anvils have a 12% chance to degrade for each use and will eventually be destroyed by such use. On average, an anvil will survive for 24 uses, which is approximately one use per 1.3 iron ingots used in crafting the anvil.
Anvils are affected by gravity in the same way as sand, gravel, and dragon eggs are. A placed anvil cannot be pushed or pulled by pistons, but a falling anvil can. Falling anvils can do considerable amounts of damage to mobs or players, so they can be used in traps. However, anvils themselves have a chance to be damaged by the fall as well.
Anvils have two modes to repair items that have a durability rating As with the crafting grid, a player may repair items by combining two similar items. With the anvil, however, the target will keep its enchantments, and may gain new ones from the sacrificed item.
Anvils have two modes to repair items that have a durability rating Alternatively, a player can use materials originally required in the crafting of the item (iron ingots for iron items with durability, diamonds for diamond items with durability) to repair a single item. One material can only repair 25% of the target's maximum durability.
In addition, the player can rename any item - not just items with durability - by using an anvil.
Repairing with materials works for the most part, but not with all items: As a rule of thumb, it works for items with their material in the default name, like iron pickaxe, so it can be done with various tools except for bows and shears. As a special case, chain armor can be repaired with iron ingots. The repair does not need to be complete; one material will only repair ⁄4 of the item's maximum durability.
Repairing with a matching item works for any item with durability including bows, shears and so on. The items must match in type; you cannot combine a golden pickaxe with an iron one, for example.
Note that in both cases the resulting durability will be limited to the item's maximum, and there is no discount for "over-repair".
As a subset of repairing one item with another, the anvil can transfer enchantments from the sacrifice to the target. This can have a synergistic effect when both items share identical enchantments, or simply add to each other when they do not. Two Sharpness II swords can be combined to make a Sharpness III sword, for example, or a pickaxe with Efficiency can be combined with one that has Unbreaking. This can produce enchantments and combinations that could not be made by using an enchanting table. But even so, some enchantments cannot be combined if they are similar, or contradicting, in context of what it does. If the target is damaged, you will pay for the repair as well as the transfer.
Transferring high-level enchantments is more expensive, and renaming an item has an additional surcharge. The anvil has a limit of 39 levels, beyond which it will refuse to repair altogether. This limit is not present in creative mode.
Any item or stack of items can be renamed at a cost of one level plus any prior-work penalty. If the player is only renaming, the maximum total cost is 39 levels. The maximum length for renaming is 30 characters. Some items have special effects when renamed A name tag must be renamed before it can be used.
Some items have special effects when renamed A renamed spawn egg will produce a mob with the same name.
Some items have special effects when renamed Chests, trapped chests, furnaces, hoppers, droppers, dispensers, minecarts with chests, minecarts with hoppers, enchantment tables, and brewing stands will display the name in their GUI when placed. Renamed command blocks will use their name in chat messages instead of [@] Upon breaking the block or minecart, its name is lost.
Renamed command blocks will use their name in chat messages instead of [@] Any other block will lose its name upon placing it.
Enchanted books themselves can be combined to create higher tiered books.
When there are air blocks below anvils, they will fall. Anvils will make a metallic clanging sound when they land.
When anvils land on a non-solid block, they destroy the non-solid block rather than dropping as an item, unlike gravel or sand. When an anvil is dropped on pressure plates, boats, cobwebs, slabs, signs, cakes, lily pads, opened fence gates, or closed trapdoors that do not have a block beneath them, the anvil will drop itself as an item. When dropped on a mob head, the mob head will become the item form.
Falling anvils, when they fall on a player or mob, will damage them. Damage amount depends on fall distance: 2 () per block fallen after the first (e.g., an anvil that falls 4 blocks will deal 6 () damage). The damage is capped at 40 ( × 20), no matter how far the anvil falls. Wearing a helmet will reduce the damage by ⁄4, but this costs durability on said helmet. When a player dies by an anvil falling on them, the chat will display this message: "Player was squashed by a falling anvil." However if a player is merely touched by an anvil entity, or falling anvil, no damage will result until the falling anvil becomes a solid anvil-block in the airspace where the player is located. Falling anvils can be manipulated by TNT cannons, and will pass right through a mob or player without damaging them.
Item.
Block.
 Dynamic block entity data  Tile (deprecated): The Block ID. Not limited to only sand, gravel, dragon eggs, or anvils. Although deprecated, this value is always present.
 Dynamic block entity data  TileID: The Block ID, as above, but now supporting the 1-4095 range. Only prior to 1.8.
 Dynamic block entity data  Block: The Block ID using the alphabetical ID format: minecraft:stone. Only in and after 1.8.
 Dynamic block entity data  TileEntityData: Optional. The tags of the block entity for this block.
 Dynamic block entity data  Data: The data value for the block.
 Dynamic block entity data  Time: The number of ticks the entity has existed. If set to 0, the moment it ticks to 1, it will vanish if the block at its location has a different ID than the entity's TileID. If the block at its location has the same ID as its TileID when Time ticks from 0 to 1, the block will instead be deleted, and the entity will continue to fall, having overwritten it. (This was the result of Mojang's failed attempt to "fix" infinite sand/gravel/dragon egg/anvil/etc. generators by trying to have the falling sand entity delete the duplicated block the next tick) When Time goes above 600, or above 100 while the block is below Y=0, the entity is deleted.
 Dynamic block entity data  DropItem: 1 or 0 (true/false) - true if the block should drop as an item when it breaks. A technical block (meaning any block that doesn't have an item form with the same ID as the block) won't drop even if this is set.
 Dynamic block entity data  HurtEntities: 1 or 0 (true/false) - true if the block should hurt entities it falls on.
 Dynamic block entity data  FallHurtMax: The maximum number of hitpoints of damage to inflict on entities that intersect this FallingSand. For vanilla FallingSand, always 40 ( × 20).
 Dynamic block entity data  FallHurtAmount: Multiplied by the FallDistance to calculate the amount of damage to inflict. For vanilla FallingSand, always 2.
If a block is renamed, it will not keep its name after being placed.
The falling ability of the anvil is a reference to the common cartoon trope.
The anvil has the same blast resistance as obsidian and the enchantment table.
If you rename a material, such as diamonds, it will not stack with unnamed or differently-named items.
If a falling anvil lands on a pressure plate, it will damage any mob standing on the pressure plate, and drop as an item.
For unenchanted items, "unit repair" can easily cost more material than just crafting a new item or combining damaged items. The exception is armor, where you can use less material at the cost of experience levels.
If placed on top of exploding TNT blocks, the explosion won't affect the surrounding area. This is because the Anvil falls into the space the TNT entity is occupying, and since the TNT's explosion power is not high enough to destroy the anvil, no blocks are destroyed.
Anvils are also commonly used as a guillotine because of its ability to kill mobs/players as a controlled entity.
If an anvil is placed on top of a chest, you are still able to open the chest.
If an anvil falls on top of any non-solid block (except flowers) the block will be replaced by the anvil and will not drop itself.
The first screenshot of the anvil.
A series of screenshots showing the item repair interface.
Top down view of the three stages of anvils. From left to right: anvil, slightly damaged anvil, very damaged anvil.
3D view of the three stages of anvils. From left to right: anvil, slightly damaged anvil, very damaged anvil.
