A barrier is an invisible block that can serve as a better alternative for Bedrock as it is indestructible. Though invisible to players in survival, players in creative while holding a barrier block in their hand will show the barrier blocks as a red slashed circle facing the player's view, although when the player switches to another block the symbol/sign disappears and becomes completely transparent. This effect is in creative only even if players in survival are holding a barrier block, it can't make the barriers to become visible.
Like a few blocks such as the command block for example can only be obtained via commands. By doing   (Note: you do not have to put minecraft with barrier) gives you a barrier block. These blocks are unobtainable in survival unless cheats are enabled and are used.
• It is the only Block that is Invisible In-Game.
• The Barrier Block can help a map builder design a world. For example, he/she can use the block to restrict players from entering that zone, unless of course they're in Creative Mode.
A barrier is an invisible block which appears transparent, but has mixed properties.
Barriers cannot be broken in survival mode.
Barriers are not listed in the creative inventory (similarly to command block) and can only be obtained using commands, such as /give <player> minecraft:barrier <amount>.
The block in the player's inventory shows up as a red box with a slash through it, but when placed is completely invisible.
Barriers are transparent to light, but interact with blocks and mobs like a solid block. All dependent blocks can be placed on a barrier, such as trapdoors or redstone, and it will suffocate mobs. Mobs cannot spawn on barriers.
In creative mode, if a player is holding a barrier block in their hand, all placed barrier blocks display the barrier icon as a particle. This effect is client-side, and if a player holds a barrier block in survival, the particle won't show up. Barrier blocks will not be shown if the particle setting is set to "minimal". Barriers cannot be pushed by pistons.
The "No" symbol used is actually an inverted version of the ISO standard.
Barriers support any block, and can transmit a redstone signal.
A pig standing on a barrier.
Animation of barrier's render (with the "No" symbol and not). (Note: To see the animation, click on the image).
Barrier in debug mode.
Barrier being regenerated as it breaks in debug mode.
