Blocks of Gold (also known as Gold Block) are Blocks made up of Gold Ingots. They do appear in normally generated maps in Ocean Monuments, where eight of them can be found. Gold Ingots can be obtained by smelting Gold Ore, and as a rare drop for killing Zombie Pigmen in The Nether. .
Blocks of Gold can be crafted by placing 9 Gold Ingots with a Crafting Table, and can then be crafted back into 9 Gold Ingots again, making them more useful as storage blocks. 8 Blocks of Gold and an Apple are needed to make a Golden Apple. However, it is possible to make a less-useful Golden Apple with Gold Ingots instead, by turning one Block of Gold into nine Gold Ingots.
Gold is susceptible to destruction from TNT, and only requires approximately 3 seconds to mine successfully. As with most mineral blocks, an Iron or Diamond Pickaxe is required.
The Block of Gold's texture was different when it first debuted. The texture was changed from the Survival 0.26 update to the current texture in the Halloween Update.
Gold is the densest material that exists in the Minecraft world, with a density of approximately 19.3 g/cm^3.
Since a full Block in Minecraft measures exactly 1 cubic meter, if The player carries 64 Blocks of Gold in each slot of their inventory and hotbar, the player will be bearing a load of approximately 44,467,200 kilograms, not including themself nor their Gold Armor. the player would be carrying 355,737,600 kilograms if their inventory were filled with Enchanted Golden Apples.
A block of gold.
Blocks of Gold in Minecraft PE.
A Massive house made with gold, and diamond blocks.
Add a photo to this gallery.
Blocks of Gold (also known as Gold Blocks) are decorative mineral blocks.
Blocks of gold can only be mined using an iron or diamond pickaxe.
Ocean monuments have a central room containing 8 blocks of gold encased in dark prismarine.
Blocks of gold are a compact way to store gold ingots.
Blocks of gold can be used to "power" a beacon. The top layer must be at least 3×3 optional lower layers can be adding as 5×5, 7×7, and 9×9 from top to bottom. The layers do not have to be entirely gold blocks, as they may also contain blocks of iron, blocks of diamond, and blocks of emerald.
Gold blocks are needed to build and activate the nether reactor in Pocket Edition.
 In Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition, before TU19, four gold blocks stacked on top of an obsidian block can be found inside the tutorial world's desert pyramid. This is a reference to Achievement Hunter's Let's Play Minecraft series, in which this combination is used to create the “Tower of Pimps” (seen right), a structure first created by Gavin Free, which is now used in many episodes as a trophy.
The original gold block.
