 The Button is a non-solid block that can be interacted with by The Player. It can be crafted with wood or stone. Buttons can be found naturally in strongholds right next to iron doors.
Like torches, buttons can be placed to a side of a dispenser, crafting table, or furnace in the same fashion (done by crouching).
When used with redstone, it can activate mechanism-related items, such as doors, pistons or TNT. When pressed, it will send a short pulse of power (lasting approximately 1.0 seconds, or 10 ticks) to any redstone powered item.
Inside Snapshot 12w34a, a Wood variation of the regular button was added, and is created by placing a Wood Plank anywhere in the Crafting Grid.
In snapshot 14w04a, buttons can be placed on the ceiling and on the floor.
Wooden Buttons have a longer delay than Stone Buttons. Stone Buttons have a 1 second or 10 tick delay, and Wooden Buttons have a 1.5 second or 15 tick delay.
A button is a non-solid block which can provide temporary redstone power.
Buttons can be mined with any tool.
A button will also be removed and drop itself as an item if its attachment block is moved, removed, or destroyed.
A button will also be removed and drop itself as an item if water flows into its space.
A button will also be removed and drop itself as an item if a piston tries to push it or moves a block into its space.
A button will be destroyed without dropping itself as an item if lava flows into its space.
Buttons can be crafted from stone for a stone button, or wood planks for a wooden button.
Stone buttons are naturally generated in strongholds, next to iron doors.
A button can be used as a monostable power source (it will automatically deactivate shortly after being activated).
To place a button, use the "Use Item/Place Block" control (right-click, by default) while aiming at the surface to which it should be attached.
A button can be attached to the side, bottom and top of any full solid opaque block (stone, dirt, blocks of gold, etc.).
Buttons are usually in an inactive state, but can be temporarily activated by players. To activate a placed button, use the "Use Item/Place Block" control (right-click, by default). A wooden button can also be activated by a fired arrow.
Mobs cannot activate buttons directly, but arrows fired by skeletons or dispensers can activate wooden buttons.
When activated, a stone button will remain active for 10 redstone ticks (1 second, barring lag), while a wooden button will remain active for 15 redstone ticks (1.5 seconds, barring lag). A wooden button activated by a fired arrow will remain active until the arrow despawns after one minute or is picked up.
While active, a button powers any adjacent redstone dust to power level 15, including beneath the button.
While active, a button powers any adjacent redstone comparators or redstone repeaters facing away from the button to power level 15.
While active, a button strongly powers its attachment block to power level 15.
While active, a button activates any adjacent mechanism components, including above or below, such as pistons, redstone lamps, etc.
When a button changes state it will provide a redstone update to all redstone components adjacent to itself (including above and below), and to all redstone components adjacent to its attachment block.
A button's type is defined by its ID name, and its orientation and activation status is stored in its block data. A button also has a block state which is expected to replace the functionality of block data in a future version.
A button's ID defines what type of button it is.
A button's block data stores its orientation, and whether it is active.
The pre-1.4.2 crafting recipe for the stone button required two stone blocks.
