Carpet is a item that was added in 1.6 for PC and 0.8.0 in Pocket Edition. A carpet is a thin sheet of wool that can be placed on the ground. Blocks cannot be placed directly on top of carpets (such as the Lily Pad). Carpet currently serves no real purpose other than to be aesthetically pleasing when decorating a house.
Carpet is a block added in 13w16a that stands as a decoration block. The block acts like more of a half slab because you cannot place other blocks on top like a slab.
There is a glitch where you can put carpet on carpet and walk on it.
You can put carpets on downer Slabs, and they will act like it would be a normal block, but you still can not place Signs, Torches etc. on them.
There is a glitch that when you put a carpet on a fence, you can jump over it whilst you can't jump over a normal fence but if you stand on the middle of a carpet on top a fence, you will be floating in mid-air. The glitch also works with Cobblestone Walls.
Placing carpet between an enchantment table and some bookshelves will cause the bookshelves not to influence the enchantment table.
Crafted from any type of colored wool.
Carpets are thin blocks which are mainly used for decoration.
Carpets can be mined using any tool, or without a tool. Unlike wool, carpets are not destroyed quicker when using shears.
In Pocket Edition, carpets replace the pressure plates of the tables in villages.
Carpet has the same thickness as a pressure plate. It has a hitbox of ⁄16 of a block and covers the entire surface of the block it is placed on, unlike pressure plates.
Carpet can be placed on any block, including non-solid blocks.
Carpet can be pushed and pulled by pistons but will pop off if pushed onto a hole or pulled downwards. It can also break falling sand and gravel.
Mob AI register carpet as an air block, even though mobs are not able to spawn on carpet.
Carpet is an opaque block but does not decrease light going through it. Because of this and the fact that it can be placed on any block, a common decorative strategy is to place carpet on glowstone, illuminating a room and hiding the light source at the same time.
If the player sprints across carpet, the particle effects are those of the blocks that are directly below it.
Carpet will not prevent the formation of ice.
Carpet can safely be placed on top of farmland, although it will not protect the farmland from jumping entities.
Mobs spawning naturally in a darkened, carpeted room.
Carpeted floor. There are some jack o'lanterns below them, so this area is well lit without torches.
Red carpet seen in the 13w25a Banner.
