 Cobblestone Walls are a decorative block implemented in the "Pretty Scary Update". They can be used as an alternative to fences, as their hitbox totals 1.5 blocks in height; hence they cannot be jumped over by the player without jump boosts. Like fences, spiders can still climb/jump over. Cobblestone walls can be a more efficient way to fence in mobs since it takes less resources than a Fence. There are 2 kinds of Cobblestone walls, the original cobblestone walls, and the Mossy Cobblestone Wall. Each crafted the same way, but using Moss Stone instead of Cobblestone or vice versa.
Cobblestone walls are decorative blocks. There are 2 types: cobblestone walls and mossy cobblestone walls.
Cobblestone walls can be mined using any pickaxe. If mined without a pickaxe, it will drop nothing.
Cobblestone walls are one and a half blocks tall for player/mob collision, and one block tall for all other purposes, similar to fences. This prevents players and mobs from jumping over them, while using only one actual block space. A wall occupies the center space of blocks and automatically connects to any solid block that is placed next to it. Since their hitbox is smaller than a single block, it will allow a mob in the block to breathe even when submerged.
Cobblestone walls are more efficient at fencing off mobs than a two-block high wall of cobblestone, costing only half as many blocks, and being more space-efficient as well. The drawback, however, is that a skeleton might shoot over the wall, a creeper could explode if a player is standing near the wall and a spider could still climb over the wall.
Unlike fences, if two cobblestone walls are placed one block apart diagonally, you cannot walk between them.
When a fence gate is placed between 2 cobblestone walls (of either type) it will stoop down slightly to match the height of the cobblestone wall. If the fence gate is placed next to only 1 (mossy) cobblestone wall, or vice versa, it will not lower.
Although the cobblestone wall only raises at corners and ends, it will raise to support a solid or non-solid block placed above it.
First ever released image of cobblestone walls by Jeb.
An official image by Dinnerbone using beds (and cobblestone walls) to indirectly point to the ending URL of an Imgur image, used to reveal dye-able leather armor.
Cobblestone walls raise at corners and when a block is placed above.
