Cobblestone, the cracked product of mined Stone, is one of the most common Blocks in Minecraft, being found either by mining ordinary stone, or in dungeons that have been generated by the game, along with Moss Stone. It can also be found in strongholds, villages, and jungle temples. Cobblestone doesn't have physics applied to it, so it makes a very good construction material and is used to craft a Furnace. It can be smelted in a furnace to turn it back into Stone. Once Cobblestone is smelted, it becomes considerably weaker than it was before.
Cobblestone is mostly used for creating Furnaces and building shelter. Cobblestone can also be used for Tools, such as Pickaxes, Axes, Shovels, etc. Cobblestone is also used for some weapons, such as Swords. The material is also very blast resistant, being one of the easiest blast-resistant materials to obtain.
When flowing Water and flowing Lava meet, they create Cobblestone, allowing Players an infinite supply of Cobblestone, assuming the Lava and Water source blocks aren't blocked off or removed.
Cobblestone is resistant to Ghast fireballs, making it useful for guarding Portals.
Cobblestone was actually introduced before Stone was.
In past versions, Cobblestone had a lighter texture to it.
Cobblestone is one of the few blocks obtained by mining a different block, Stone, in this case.
End Stone is a color invert of Cobblestone.
If Stone is mined with a Pickaxe with the Silk Touch Enchantment, it will give you regular Stone instead of Cobblestone.
Cobblestone is one of the first to blocks designed, the other being Grass.
Cobblestone can be used at a Crafting Table to craft the following items.
 Cobblestone Stairs.
Cobblestone can be used at a Crafting Table to craft the following items.
 Cobblestone Slabs.
Cobblestone can be used at a Crafting Table to craft the following items.
 Cobblestone Walls.
Cobblestone can be used at a Crafting Table to craft the following items.
 Furnaces.
Cobblestone can be used at a Crafting Table to craft the following items.
 All stone Tools and Weapons.
Cobblestone can be used at a Crafting Table to craft the following items.
 Brewing Stand.
Cobblestone/Gallery.
Cobblestone is a common block, obtained from mining stone. Its texture resembles an uneven, roughly paved surface. Cobblestone is mainly used for crafting or as a common building block.
If cobblestone is mined with any pickaxe, it will drop itself; otherwise, it will drop nothing.
If stone is mined with a pickaxe that is not enchanted with silk touch, it will drop cobblestone.
Cobblestone occurs naturally in dungeons, strongholds, villages, and jungle temples.
When water and flowing lava come into contact, the flowing lava is replaced with cobblestone. However, if the lava flows on top of the water from above, stone will be created instead.
Cobblestones can be used as a basic building block, as it is highly blast resistant and fairly common.
Silverfish have the ability to enter and hide in cobblestone, creating a monster egg.
The original texture came from one of Notch's abandoned projects called RubyDung. The current cobblestone texture came from swapping the top and bottom halves of the third texture, then brightening it.
Example of a building made with cobblestone, this one being a church in a village.
All the textures of cobblestone.
Dec value: 04.
Hex value: 4.
Minimum tool requirement to break: Wooden pickaxe.
Blast resistance: 30.
Maximum stack 64.
Transparency: No.
Cobblestone is ‘created’ when normal stone and cobblestone are mined or when water flows on top of flowing lava. It can also be found in dungeons, villages and strongholds. This makes cobblestone often an early indicator of underground dungeons and strongholds. Due to the sheer amount of available stone, cobblestone is often the most used block by any player without creative mode or inventory edits.
It’s possible to create a cobblestone generator by using a lava flow and water, this offers an infinite supply of cobblestone without having to travel. This is also used in custom adventure and survival maps in which the player is given a limited amount of blocks to work with.
Silverfish are capable of entering and hiding in these stones, which will make it look like a normal cobblestone block, but with different properties than regular cobblestone.
Breaking this new type of stone will set the silverfish free, which will attack you and call upon other silverfish who might be hiding in the surrounding stones.
Luckily, Silverfish only appear naturally in strongholds.
Mossy cobblestone is a different version of cobblestone, though it can only be found in dungeons.
