Detector Rails are a type of rail that acts like a pressure plate, therefore like rail-switches.
When any kind of Minecart is on top of the Detector Rail, it will generate a redstone signal. The signal will be transmitted to blocks that are adjacent to the detector (including Powered Rail) and redstone placed under the rail, like Pressure Plates.
Detector rails can be used for many things. One train station-like feature could be activating a Note Block to indicate that a minecart is approaching, or a note block in conjunction with a redstone torch to have a grade crossing signal. It is easiest to simply wire a series of 4-6 detector rails, one around every 20 blocks, to a note block and an inverter that powers a Redstone Torch. As the cart passes each detector rail, it will trigger the circuit for one flash of the torch and a chime, thus giving you 4-6 chimes before the cart reaches the crossing. Additionally, they can be used to create a one-way gate to a Powered Rail, with any carts coming the other way slowing down if not stopping completely. They also can be used to activate dispensers to create a minecart-friendly mob trap. They can also trigger the TNT in a Minecart with TNT, due to their ability to activate redstone.
When the detector rail was first added to Minecraft it could not be placed next to any rail without the game crashing due to a bug.
If a detector rail was placed on a slope and the next rail had the opposite slope, the detector would only generate signals for occupied carts (like a stone pressure plate). This bug was fixed in update 1.6.
If a detector rail is on a slope with a powered rail adjacent to it on flat ground, the Detector will not activate it when a Minecart runs over it.
A detector rail is a block which can transport minecarts and can be used as a switchable redstone power source.
A detector rail can be obtained by crafting, or by breaking a previously-placed detector rail.
To remove a detector rail, mine it. Detector rails can be broken fairly easily by hand, but can be broken faster by using a pickaxe.
A detector rail will also be removed and drop itself as an item if its attachment block is moved, removed, or destroyed.
A detector rail will also be removed and drop itself as an item if water flows into the detector rail's space.
A detector rail will also be removed and drop itself as an item if a piston tries to move it vertically, or if there is no valid attachment block at the new position after a horizontal move.
If lava flows into a detector rail's space, the detector rail will be destroyed without dropping itself as an item.
A detector rail can be used as a rail which can detect when minecarts are on it or how full container minecarts on it are.
To place a detector rail, use the Place Block control on the face of a block adjacent to the destination space.
A detector rail can be attached to the top of any full solid opaque block (stone, dirt, blocks of gold, etc.), including full-block mechanism components (command blocks, dispensers, droppers, note blocks, and redstone lamps).
A detector rail can be attached to the top of a hopper, upside-down slab, or upside-down stairs.
A detector rail cannot be attached to the side or bottom of any block, but attempting to make such an attachment may cause the detector rail to attach to the top of a block under the destination space. For example, if a fence is on the ground, attempting to attach a detector rail to the side of the fence will cause the detector rail to be attached to the top of the ground next to the fence instead.
When placed, a detector rail will configure itself to line up with any adjacent rails (including activator rails, powered rails, and other detector rails), as well as adjacent rails one block up. If there are two adjacent rails on non-opposite sides, or three or more adjacent rails, a detector rail will line up in the east-west direction. If there are no adjacent rails, a detector rail will line up in the north-south direction (but if a rail is later placed to the east or west, the detector rail will re-orient itself in the east-west direction even if it is already connected to another rail to the north or south). If a rail it would line up with is one block up, a detector rail will slant upwards towards it (with multiple options to slant upwards to, a detector rail "prefers", in order: west, east, south, and north). Other configurations can be created by placing and removing various rails.
Mobs will not try to walk across a detector rail (or other rails), but can be pushed onto them.
Detector rails (and other rails) act as "roads" for minecarts. A minecart that enters a detector rail's space from either end of the detector rail will continue to move, losing only a little velocity (which can then be increased again with powered rails). A minecart that enters a detector rail's space from the side will turn east or south (depending on the detector rail's orientation), or in the downward direction for a slanted detector rail.
A detector rail activates when any minecart is on it (even if only a portion of the minecart is on it), and deactivates when no minecarts are on it. While active, a detector rail powers adjacent redstone dust and adjacent redstone repeaters facing away from the detector rail, to power level 15.
While active, a detector rail powers adjacent redstone comparators facing away from the detector rail to a level corresponding to the fullness of the chest or the hopper in the cart.
While active, a detector rail strongly powers any full solid opaque block beneath the detector rail to power level 15.
While active, a detector rail activates any adjacent mechanism components, including above or below, such as pistons, redstone lamps, powered rails, etc.
If the minecart on the detector rail is a minecart with chest or minecart with hopper, an adjacent redstone comparator facing away from the detector rail will output a power level proportional to the container's fullness, possibly power level 0. For any other type of minecart (including a regular minecart with a player or a villager riding it) the comparator's output is zero.
A detector rail has the ID name minecraft:detector_rail and is further defined by its block data. A detector rail also has a block state which is expected to replace the functionality of block data in a future version.
A detector rail's block data stores its orientation and activation status.
