End Stone, also known as Death Stone, White Stone, Ender Stone, Dark Stone, and Dragon Stone, is a block which is only found in The End along with Obsidian, and has a texture similar to that of a beehive or a yellow cobblestone. End Stone is only obtainable with a Pickaxe. In the End, you could make an unbreakable shelter; the Enderdragon cannot destroy End Stone, but it would break anything you placed inside, as it phases through. It is mainly used as expensive decorations, or Creeper resistant houses. End Stone has the highest blast resistance of any block that can be blown up easily (45).
End Stone is the only block (along with Obsidian and Bedrock) that cannot be destroyed by an Enderdragon. Endermen cannot pick these up, either.
In earlier versions of Minecraft, you needed the Silk Touch enchantment to obtain End Stone, because it would drop Cobblestone without the enchantment.
End Stone's texture is actually Cobblestone's texture, but with inverted colors.
End Stone appears to be used in the End Portal's frame blocks; the upper half appears to have changed, so Eyes of Ender may fit in them.
End Stone has the 3rd highest blast resistance in-game. (2nd being Obsidian and the 1st being Bedrock. It has a higher blast resistance than regular Stone thus making it ideal in blast resistant structures if Obsidian farming is inconvenient.
End Stone being held by the Player.
A group of Endermen standing on a End Stone.
The mighty land of the Enderdragon made out of End Stone.
Add a photo to this gallery.
End Stone (sometimes called Ender Stone) is a block that appears in the End and makes up most of the dimension.
End stone must be obtained using a pickaxe of any tier, otherwise it drops nothing.
End stone is only found in the End, where it makes up the island. There is a finite amount of end stone on the island.
End stone has a blast resistance of 45, 1.5 times that of ordinary stone. It also cannot be picked up by endermen and cannot be destroyed by the ender dragon.
The end stone can be seen at the bottom of this image, although it has been subjected to a greenish light.
Brightened version of the previous image.
A better view of end stone.
