Flower Pots are decorative blocks that was added in version 1.4.2, "Pretty Scary Update" for Halloween. You can place many types of plants in a flower pot. flowers, ferns, cacti, dead bushes, saplings and mushrooms all can go in flower pot. Flower pots can only be placed on top of a solid block.Place a flower pot like any other block, only it must be on a solid block. Once placed, place a plant on top of the flower pot for it to hold it. That's it! Enjoy.
Saplings will not grow when inside a flower pot, as they grow trees whose blocks are larger than flower pots.
A cactus will not harm players when grown inside a flower pot.
Pistons will destroy a flower pot when pushing one.
Flower pots appear differently in their texture when recieved through the /give command.
Flower pots also appear naturally in Witch huts, with mushrooms planted in them.
A flower pot in a Witch hut.
Add a photo to this gallery.
A flower pot is a decorative block that allows plants in it.
Flower pots can be mined using any tool, or without a tool.
A flower pot will also drop itself as an item when pushed by a piston.
One flower pot spawns in every witch hut, containing a red mushroom. This is not the best source in the game, though, as witch huts spawn only rarely.
A flower pot can be used to hold various plants. Plants that can be placed in a pot include any one block high flowers, saplings, mushrooms, and cacti.
Flower pots can be placed on upside-down slabs and upside-down stairs. They can not be placed on normal slabs and stairs. Flower pots are 3/8 block high and can be stepped on. It is not possible to walk from the top of a flower pot onto a full sized block without jumping. It is possible to jump from a flower pot onto a fence.
The flower pot is based on a suggestion from Reddit, like Ender chests and item frames.
When placed in a flower pot, cacti will not harm the player or destroy items.
Flower pots break falling sand and gravel blocks.
When aiming at the side of a transparent block behind or above a crafting table the pot will not be placed on said block but on top of the crafting table instead.
The first image of flower pots, released by Dinnerbone.
Five flower pots in a player-created village.
