Gold is a fairly rare ore found in Minecraft. When mined with an Iron Pickaxe or better it drops one gold ore. It serves little use as a tool because of its very low durability, which is often overlooked by players. Gold ore is found deeper than more ores in the game, below layer 30.
Gold has some uses for crafting items. Gold is used to make gold ingots in furnaces to craft items such as gold pickaxes. The durability of gold tools is very poor, but it is the fastest tool in terms of breaking blocks than other types. Gold ingots can be used for crafting clocks, which allow players to find out the time above when they are in their mines or shelters. Gold ingots can be used to make Golden Apples that heal two hunger and has a Regeneration effect. It also can be used to craft Powered Rails and gold blocks. Gold tools have similar strength and durability to their wood counterparts, but mines any material faster than other tools. Gold armor has similar strength and durability to leather armor. Thus, gold is usually only worn/used for leisure and fashion. Other uses of gold include decorative purposes, catchy or insanely expensive structures that usually look pretty nice. Gold tools and armor has 33 uses, but are extremely fast at work.
Gold ingots can also be crafted into some Gold Nugget, which can be crafted back into a gold ingot using nine.
Gold is one of the rarest ores- slightly more common than diamond- and makes the fastest tools, but has the least number of uses. A very popular thing to do with it is use it as a lava bath or a base layer for some monster traps. Gold ore is smelted to make golden ingots. Nine gold ingots are used for gold blocks, which are used as gold storage or building.
In Survival Test, gold ore gave 1 Gold Block without having to smelt anything.
9 gold nuggets can be crafted into a gold ingot, and 9 gold ingots can be crafted into a gold block.
Gold seems to be less important of an ore in the Xbox 360 edition due to the fact that its durability behaves like Leather Armor, and the tools behave like a slightly stronger version of Stone Tools and Weapons, making it the most useless ore in the entire game.
A lot of people say that gold is their least favourite material. Some people say wooden tools are better, even though it takes an Iron Pickaxe to mine.
A gold pickaxe can harvest anything you can harvest with a wooden pickaxe.
Gold ore found with coal and iron ore.
Golden Ore on the surface.
Gold ore in pocket edition.
Add a photo to this gallery.
Gold ore is one of the rarest types of mineral blocks found underground.
Gold ore will drop as an item if mined by an iron or diamond pickaxe. If mined by any other tool, it will drop nothing.
Gold ore generates in veins of 4-8 blocks (sometimes up to 16 if two veins happen to spawn together, and as few as 1 if the block that was supposed to be gold ore is occupied by a generated structure). It only appears in the bottom 32 layers of the map. From levels 2-29, gold ore's occurrence underground is at 0.1437% (about five times as rare as iron). On average there are 8.2 gold ores per chunk.
However, in Pocket Edition, gold generates at any height in mesas.
Gold ore blocks naturally occurring next to a lapis lazuli block, a redstone ore block and lava.
Gold ore blocks in a cave.
Gold ore exposed by a river in a Mesa biome (Pocket Edition).
The original gold ore texture in-game.
