Gravel is a type of Block typically found in naturally-occurring pits, underwater, on beaches, in NPC Villages, or in The Nether. Like Sand, Gravel will fall to the lowest y-coordinate below it if there is no solid block underneath it. Therefore, it is possible to suffocate with careless use of Gravel by being surrounded by it. If the lowest block in a column of Gravel is occupied by a partial block, like a Torch, the Gravel Block will disintegrate into a Gravel resource instead. It is the second most abundant of the physics obeying blocks, Sand being the first.
Gravel is a medium grey block with dark grey marks on it. Its previous texture had a pink/purple tint, but this was changed.
Gravel's abundance and gravity-obeying property makes it useful for a variety of tasks, along with its gravity-obeying partner, Sand. For exploration, it can be used to quickly build pillars to reach heights that are easy to dismantle after. They can also be used to quickly fill in Water or Lava lakes by dropping them on the edges or against overhead blocks, so that they fall and occupy the fluids. Filling caves in with Gravel is a quick way to prevent mobs from spawning. Mobs can be suffocated with Gravel, too. This is an efficient way to raid a dungeon. If mined, Gravel has a slight chance of dropping Flints. If using a Tool with the Fortune Enchantment, however, there is a 100% chance the player will find Flints.
Gravel is also commonly used for traps where pistons move down, allowing the gravel to move down as well, so something else such as water or lava will flow in where the gravel was, effectively making a bridge across a moat. This saves the player from having to use Slimeballs for Sticky Pistons. Another trap that Gravel is useful for is setting a suffocation trap. This is where pistons would be triggered and retract sideways, allowing the gravel to fall on top of whoever was below.
In the Nether, it is possible to find massive cliffs made of naturally-floating Gravel. Just like with Sand, if any are destroyed, replaced, removed, or if a Ghast's fireball hits them, all of the adjacent floating blocks will collapse.
Back in beta versions, there were errors of Gravel appearing everywhere (even in The Void, though it is extremely, extremely rare.) These masses were called "Gravel beaches," which can still be seen in the Overworld.
In caves (mainly ravines) there is another glitch called "floating Gravel" in which Gravel is floating in midair without any block under it. A simple hit can cause the gravel patches to fall. This can happen in Mineshafts.
Gravel is used as a pathway in NPC Villages. Due to its gravity obeying nature, it can collapse into caves, leaving villagers trapped underground. This will be fixed in version 1.8: Cobblestone will generate underneath the Gravel pathways, preventing it from collapsing.
As a version exclusive, gravel that is capable of collapsing releases particles in Pocket Edition. .
Add a photo to this gallery.
Gravel is an uncommon type of block that is affected by gravity.
Gravel can be broken using any tool, but a shovel is the quickest. When broken, it has a 10% chance of dropping flint instead of the gravel itself. The flint received can be controlled with enchantments. Silk touch removes the chance of dropping flint. Fortune increases the chance to 14% at level I, 25% at level II, and 100% at level III.
If gravel falls onto a non-full block, it will drop as an item, and not drop flint.
Gravel is typically found underwater, deep underground in veins of up to 33 blocks, on beaches, in village pathways, and in the Nether. It is generated at a rate of approximately 3.29% that of stone between layers 1 and 111.
In the Nether, gravel generates naturally between Y=63 and Y=65 in one-block-deep layers. It may generate without a block below it, in which case it will fall when updated.
Gravel, if there is no block below it, will fall until it lands on the next available block. When gravel is being affected by gravity and falling, it exhibits a smooth falling animation.
If gravel lands on a mob or the player and covers their head, it will suffocate them until they destroy the block, move out of the block or die. If falling gravel lands in the space occupied by a non-solid block, (such as torches, slabs, rails, or redstone), it will break and turn into a gravel item. If it falls onto a cobweb it will slowly fall until it has gone through it completely, or until it touches the ground, at which point it will drop and turn into a gravel item.
Gravel can be placed on a non-solid block without falling.
Fletcher villagers will buy 10 blocks of gravel and an emerald for 6–10 flint.
 Dynamic block entity data  Tile (deprecated): The Block ID. Not limited to only sand, gravel, dragon eggs, or anvils. Although deprecated, this value is always present.
 Dynamic block entity data  TileID: The Block ID, as above, but now supporting the 1-4095 range. Only prior to 1.8.
 Dynamic block entity data  Block: The Block ID using the alphabetical ID format: minecraft:stone. Only in and after 1.8.
 Dynamic block entity data  TileEntityData: Optional. The tags of the block entity for this block.
 Dynamic block entity data  Data: The data value for the block.
 Dynamic block entity data  Time: The number of ticks the entity has existed. If set to 0, the moment it ticks to 1, it will vanish if the block at its location has a different ID than the entity's TileID. If the block at its location has the same ID as its TileID when Time ticks from 0 to 1, the block will instead be deleted, and the entity will continue to fall, having overwritten it. (This was the result of Mojang's failed attempt to "fix" infinite sand/gravel/dragon egg/anvil/etc. generators by trying to have the falling sand entity delete the duplicated block the next tick) When Time goes above 600, or above 100 while the block is below Y=0, the entity is deleted.
 Dynamic block entity data  DropItem: 1 or 0 (true/false) - true if the block should drop as an item when it breaks. A technical block (meaning any block that doesn't have an item form with the same ID as the block) won't drop even if this is set.
 Dynamic block entity data  HurtEntities: 1 or 0 (true/false) - true if the block should hurt entities it falls on.
 Dynamic block entity data  FallHurtMax: The maximum number of hitpoints of damage to inflict on entities that intersect this FallingSand. For vanilla FallingSand, always 40 ( × 20).
 Dynamic block entity data  FallHurtAmount: Multiplied by the FallDistance to calculate the amount of damage to inflict. For vanilla FallingSand, always 2.
TNT explosions will launch falling gravel.
If gravel falls into a cobweb, it will be slowed down and then converted to an item.
If a player is standing on a stack of sand or gravel, and the stack falls on a non-solid block, the player will fall fast enough to take damage or even die.
Gravel will often fall into caves making a mock dead end. Thus, if a player encounters a gravel dead-end while mining, removing the gravel may reveal additional passageways.
Because of the ability to reset the Nether in the console edition, gravel is renewable in it, if not considered cheating.
Gravel beach from before Beta 1.8.
Gravel in the Nether.
Gravel will still not fall down if there is a non-solid block (except fire) underneath it.
When a patch of gravel is dug out, it can reveal ores such as coal and iron.
Dec value: 13.
Hex value: D.
Minimum tool requirement to break: None.
Blast resistance: 3.
Maximum stack 64.
Transparency: No.
Gravel is found naturally both in the Overworld and the Nether. In the Overworld, gravel is usually found underground, near beaches and in caves, as well as in villages, in which it’s used as roads. In the Nether, gravel is usually found in small patches, often exposed on the surface.
Gravel is one of the only blocks affected by gravity, causing it to fall untill it’s supported by another block. If gravel falls on a transparent, partial block, like torches, redstone dust or levers, the gravel block will be destroyed instead and turn into a resource block which you can pick up. Note that with this method, gravel will only break into gravel blocks, it will never change into flint. This can speed up harvesting gravel, by simply placing a torch under a block supporting the gravel and then mining that block, all the supported gravel will fall on the torch, break and turn into gravel resource blocks.
Gravel falling onto cobwebs will be slown down, which could be used as a timer, though better methods are available, like redstone repeater circuits. Gravel can sometimes by found floating in the air, which happens when the world is created. Players can stand on it, but mining any block around it will cause all the gravel blocks around it to drop. There’s a famous challenge, seed 404, in which players have to dig a patch of gravel which will fall into a deep cave. The player will then have to survive for as long as possible. ‘Standing’ on falling gravel will not prevent the player from taking falling damage, nor will it decrease the amount of damage the player takes.
Harvesting gravel will result in a gravel block, but there’s a 10% chance gravel will drop flint instead. In this case the gravel is destroyed. Flint is used to make arrows and flint and steel, though due to their similar shape, size and colour, it’s often confused with coal. Shovels are the best tool for harvesting gravel, but due to the speed of even stone and iron shovels, diamond shovels are often considered a waste, especially if the player doesn’t have many diamonds to spare.
The falling property of gravel can be used in many ways. One such way is suffocating monsters and player. By blocking them in and dropping gravel above them, the player or mob will get stuck inside the gravel blocks and start to suffocate immediately. Gravel can also be used to fill up lava lakes. By simply placing gravel on a block above the lava, it will fall and fill up a space in the lake. This is a safer method than using the shift key to hang over the edge of a block next to lava.
