Dec value: 111.
Hex value: 6F.
Minimum tool requirement to break: None.
Blast resistance: 0 Maximum stack 64.
Transparency: Yes.
Lily pads are unique to swamp biomes, but can be found in abundance. They grow on top of water blocks and flowing water blocks. They can be walked on, which can be useful to quickly cross rivers without having to build a bridge. Lily pads can be harvested by destroying them with anything, they’re always instantly destroyed, even when you use your hands. They can then be placed by the player, but only on water and flowing water. The direction the lily pad faces depends on the block it’s placed on (the coordinates), this cannot be changed, no matter how many times you replace it.
Lily pads are destroyed when either the water block freezes or is replaced with another block and when water flows onto to lily pad. Mobs can walks over lily pads and will navigate through lily pad mazes, but they’ll go straight through water if it’s faster.
Most players use lily pads as decoration in ponds, or as walkways across water, especially on farms, as they take up less space than slabs. But lily pads can also be used to create a base on a lake, without having to go to the bottom of the water to place a pilar of blocks reaching the surface. Lily pads can simply be placed directly on the water surface and they can support other blocks on top of it.
They can also be used as obstructions. It’s impossible to swim or sail through lily pads. Trying to do so will destroy your boat, which makes lily pads a very effective perimmiter around your island. People will have no choice but to slow down to get to your island, giving you time to either hide or shoot them from a distance. People who are good at jumping can use lily pads as an escape route by placing them a few blocks apart. Anybody who tries to follow and falls in the water will almost certainly be unable to catch up with you. Alternatively, by jumping in a circular path, you can wait for your follower to fall in the water, leaving him open to attacks.
