Minecarts are vehicle entities.
Minecarts can be retrieved by attacking it for some time. Attacking the minecart with a sword or a bow will instantly destroy it.
Minecarts with chests, minecarts with hoppers, minecarts with furnaces, and minecarts with TNT, will drop 1 minecart when destroyed, Minecart with Command Blocks can only be given to the player with the /give command. Minecarts with spawners will only drop 1 minecart when broken.
A minecart can be placed in the same manner as most blocks, but can only be placed on top of a rail. Once placed, it may be derailed by pushing it off the end of the track. After this, it can be railed again by placing a rail directly below it, or pushing it onto a track.
Minecarts can be ridden by pressing the "use" control on them. Once inside, an external impulse may be needed to make the minecart start moving. The player can slowly move the minecart forwards while riding it, by pressing w. If a mob walks in front of an empty minecart, it will be pulled into the cart.
Players can exit the minecart by pressing sneak, however if there is only one block of headroom above the cart the player will take 1 () of suffocation damage as his head will be temporarily in the ceiling. When the minecart is exited, it searches for an adjacent or diagonal 2×2×3 area to put the player 1.5 blocks away from the cart. If none is available, the player is deposited directly above the minecart. Consequently, the player falls inside the minecart.
After rolling off of the end of a track, a minecart can be pushed around on open blocks. If a minecart is pushed onto or falls onto tracks, it will "snap" to those tracks. When riding a minecart, if the minecart lands on a rail, the player will not take any fall damage.
Minecarts have a predefined speed limit of 8 m/s per axis of travel. (1 block = 1 meter; 8 m/s = 28.8 km/hr.) A minecart traveling diagonally can therefore travel up to 11.314 m/s (i.e. the square root of the quantity 8 + 8) When a minecart comes to a turn it moves diagonally across that turn.
Powered rails powered by redstone will give minecarts a boost of speed. Speed is gradually decreased if there are no powered rails to assist its movement. The speed decreases at a faster rate when going uphill, compared to when moving horizontally. A minecart does not need powered rails to assist its movement down a hill.
Anything in the way of the minecart will take it to a dead stop. Once a minecart has left the track, it will rapidly decelerate within one or two blocks. It is possible to have a sufficiently boosted minecart "skip" over one square without a track, then rejoin the track at reduced energy later. When a mob touches a minecart they affect it in the same way a player would, i.e. mobs that move up against a still cart will set it in motion.
Merged minecarts are two or more minecarts merged. Their special feature is their odd way of losing speed. When coming off a track, merged minecarts initially lose their speed to around walking speed. But after first contact, they won't lose their speed anymore.
This way they can be used to cross certain distances when the player's only goal is to not actively walk towards the player's goal / target. Or when the player doesn't have enough resources to cover the complete distance, this measure can be considered. Note: for this concept to work, at least 3 minecarts will have to be merged. Doing this can detach the minecarts by pushing one off of the rails, or the one the player is riding might get stuck on a tight turn. Speed may decrease when merged.
This table shows the distance travelled by an unoccupied minecart on an incline, with a boost (or no boost). The most efficient way is to use only 1 boost at the bottom of the incline on the flat surface. Using 2 will increase by about 20% or 1.5m. All distance trends based on the height seem to be logarithmic. The carts started from rest, on an incline (at Height).
Minecarts seem to be about the same size as a block (1x1). Because of this, a ladder, door or trapdoor will prevent it from falling down a 1x1 hole.
Carts on rails will also ignore collision in certain situations. A cart traveling downhill or on a curve with a block placed in front of it will go through the block. If it is going fast enough, it can skip through one block and reattach to track on the other side, at significantly reduced speed.
A player riding in a minecart will not collide with or suffocate in any transparent blocks.
Most mobs can ride minecarts, but only some types of mobs can control them. Mobs cannot exit the minecart unless the minecart is destroyed or moves onto an active activator rail. Endermen therefore are unable to teleport out of minecarts.
If the player pushes a mob on a minecart or a mob moves into the minecart's space, the mob will ride it. Some mobs are able to nudge minecarts while in them, like players.
Tamed wolves will follow the player when in a minecart.
The player can bump a medium slime in a minecart, and it will be unable to attack. However, a large slime is able to attack.
Minecarts appear to float above the track, as their model has no wheels.
If you view your inventory while riding in a minecart you will appear sitting down in mid-air.
Minecarts can be set on fire, but the mob or player inside the minecart will not catch fire from a minecart.
You are able to teleport to another minecart whilst sitting in a minecart by right clicking a minecart in your range.
A pig inside a burning minecart.
Minecarts being stacked on each other.
Dec value: 328.
Hex value: 148.
Maximum stack 1.
Minecarts are vehicles which can be ridden when they’re placed on rails. While it’s possible to ride minecarts when they drive off of the rails, the speed at which they move is very slow.
Minecarts have to be placed on rails, though they will not move until they they get some form of impulse. This can be a simple push from a player or mob, or a redstone signal from any power source. Once a minecart has received an impulse, it’ll move for a short while before coming to a stop again, at which point it will have to receive another impulse.
This means minecarts have to be powered either constantly or on certain intervals, which is best done with either powered rails or a powered minecart. Minecarts are created with 5 iron ingots. Once placed a minecart can be destroyed in a single blow by using a sword, pickaxe or bow and arrow, however, the arrow will be lost by shooting the minecart. Swords and pickaxes will not lose any durability by destroying a minecart.
Minecarts can even be destroyed when they’re moving, which could be used to prevent players form escaping by shooting a well aimed arrow at their minecarts.
To use the minecart you simply place it down and right click it to get in. When you right click the minecart again you will get out, even if it is moving. If you get out of the minecart while it’s moving, the minecart will continue to move without you, so you may lose it. This may also happen when you get out when the minecart has stopped, as you often land close enough to the minecart to give it a small push.
To make the minecart move you could either give it a small push before entering it, or you could get in while it’s standing on a powered rail. It’s important that the powered rail is in its off state (not powered) and blocked on one side. Once you’re in you simply push a button or pull a lever, which will power the rails, and the minecart will move to whichever side isn’t blocked. Note that this will only work if the powered rails have been blocked, if both sides are connected to other rails, the minecart will not move, no matter how often you power the rails.
Alternatively, you could use a powered minecart to keep you moving at a constant pace, this requires 1 piece of coal or charcoal, which will power it for 3 minutes.
As mentioned, to keep a minecart moving you will have to supply it with power by either using powered rails or a powered minecart. While a powered minecart will keep you going at a constant speed of about 3,5 blocks per seconds, using powered rails will allow you to travel up to 8 blocks per seconds (if you go straight), though this does require a lot more resources.
One of the easiest ways to use powered minecarts is to place a redstone torch below the block it’s placed on, this will keep the rails powered forever. However, you may want to use the powered rails as a stopping mechanism as well, which means it has to be turned off once in a while. This is best done with detector rails.
Detector rails will detect any minecart on top of it and send a signal to every side, which could be a powered rails or a redstone wire. This means you could use detector rails on one side of the powered rails to boost you when you go one way and use the other way as a stopping mechanism, as powered rails which receive no power will slow you down to a complete stop, if you’re not going too fast.
A minecart will not only carry a player, any mob that falls into it can be transported, with the exception of the Ender dragon, which will destroy almost anything it flies through. While this may not seem like an immediate advantage, transporting mobs can be a very useful thing.
Transporting a large amount of animals becomes a lot easier when you can simply put each of them in a minecart, as you want have to make sure they don’t get stuck while they follow you when you lure them with weed. Mob transport can also be a great way to send mobs to specific parts of your world, perhaps to a friend’s house. And because creepers can also be transported, minecart “gifts” could lead to a destructive surprise.
