Netherrack is a rather unique block that can only be found in the Nether. Netherrack is very easy to mine, players can destroy it fairly easily with their hand, but it will not yield anything. It can also be destroyed by a Ghast's fireballs and other explosions.
When a fire is set using flint and steel on Netherrack, it will stay on fire until the player or a bucket of water puts it out, unlike other blocks. This makes it a useful block to build traps or to make fireplaces with. Fire on a Netherrack block will spread to all flammable blocks except other Netherrack blocks. Fire on a Netherrack block can only be put out with water or the player's hands. Netherrack can also be smelted in to Nether bricks, which can be used to make Nether brick blocks.
Netherrack can be destroyed by hand in seconds, making it the first stone of its kind in Minecraft.
Burning Netherrack can be used to keep an area clear of snow and ice more efficiently than torches due to it having a greater brightness, but it is not advisable to do this around wood.
Whenever Netherrack is lit beside lava, it will create more lava.
It is the Nether equivalent of grass, sand or stone in the Overworld.
Netherrack is only obtainable in Minecraft PE via a Nether Core Reactor.
When netherrack is ignited, it will burn for eternity unless water or a player extinguishes it.
 In the PS3 and PS4 edition tutorial world, a Nether portal included to teach the player about the Nether leads to a cavern exclusivly of Netherrack with some being on fire when the player arrives.
See here.
Netherrack (formerly known as Netherstone) is a rock-like block found in the Nether.
Netherrack can only be collected with a pickaxe.
Netherrack makes up most of the Nether's terrain.
In Pocket Edition, Netherrack is created when a Nether Reactor is activated.
When netherrack's top is lit on fire, it burns infinitely.
Netherrack can be destroyed by hand in 2 seconds, making it the stone which can be destroyed in the least amount of time.
Netherrack can be mined in 50 milliseconds with a golden pickaxe (or a diamond pickaxe enchanted with any level of efficiency). However, there is a .25 second delay between mining blocks. It can be instantly destroyed by an efficiency II diamond pickaxe or better, and there is no .25 second delay, because the time needed to mine it is less than one game tick.
In the game code, it is referenced as "hellrock".
Tutorials/Mob farm.
Tutorials/Traps.
Dec value: 87.
Hex value: 57.
Minimum tool requirement to break: Wooden pickaxe.
Blast resistance: 2.
Maximum stack 64.
Transparency: No.
Netherrack makes up most of the Nether and is quite fragile. It only requires a wooden pickaxe to mine and is mined very fast. A diamond pickaxe will mine it almost instantly, but so will stone and iron pickaxes, which are recommended over diamond pickaxes to avoid wasting all its durability.
Netherrack has the unique ability to stay on fire forever, even when it rains. Hitting it and pouring water over it will put the fire out, as well as placing other blocks on top of it. The fire will spread to other flammable blocks, but not onto other netherrack blocks.
Netherrack is extremely vulnarable to explosions, which makes the Nether quite dangerous. A ghast’s fireball will destroy part of the netherrack and set some of it on fire.
Netherrack is most commonly used as part of a fireplace and as part of traps. A fireplace is quite easy to make, however, fire will spread to any block next to it, includind diagonally, as well as blocks below it and up to 4 blocks above it. Keep this in mind when designing anything with fire.
Fire traps are pretty straight forward. Place a netherrack block anywhere outside and set it on fire, make sure it’s on the same level as the ground. Passive mobs will to come towards the light at night and set themselves on fire and die. They will still drop their items, though mobs who drop specialized items, like spider eggs from a spider, will not drop them.
Burning Netherrack makes a great defence line around your house or village, but be careful when you walk close, skeletons can still shoot you from behind the fire and other monsters might simply walk through to get to you. If you’re close enough they’ll most likely live long enough to hurt or kill you. Burning netherrack is often used to create burning buildings, ruins and other disaster scenarios. But again, make sure you take care not to let the fire spread. The smoke particles of fire go though solid blocks, this can be used to create dramatic effects or as small smoke clouds coming out of chimneys.
