 The Powered Rail is a block that was implemented to decrease or increase speed of moving Minecarts. It was added as a response to the minecart booster bug, which was fixed with the release of Beta 1.6 . Powered Rails cannot be curved like Detector Rails or Rails.
Powered Rails are operated by Redstone currents, which may come from a Lever, a Button, another circuit, a redstone torch, or a Detector Rail.
Powered rails, much like redstone wire, have two possible states: on or off.
A rail that is "off" slows any passing minecart by applying a frictional force. The force is generally strong enough to bring a moving minecart to a complete stop, or to hold a minecart in place on a slope. However after going down a slope 80 or more blocks long one unpowered booster rail will not stop the minecart.  .
A rail in the "on" state will accelerate a minecart if any of the following is true.
The minecart is already moving, in which case the cart is accelerated in the direction of motion.
The minecart is stationary, but one end of the powered rail is up against a solid block. In this case, the cart is accelerated in the direction that is not blocked.
The minecart is stationary, but the powered rail is on a slope. The instant the powered rail is activated, the brake is released and the cart will start moving down due to gravity. As the cart is now moving, rule (1) applies and the cart is accelerated in that direction.
The second and third cases can both be used to create simple stone button-activated launchpads.
Power can be transmitted to the rail from any of the six adjacent positions (above, below, or any side) in the same ways that redstone wire is powered. Strangely, the rail can also receive power from the five positions immediately above those adjacent positions. In other words, the rail acts as if it is two blocks high, and can receive power through any of eleven adjacent spaces, just like a door. This works whether the upper space is occupied or empty. However, powering the rail through the upper space currently exhibits more bugs related to updating.
The speed of a cart which is boosted using Powered Rails is calculated to be at the maximum of 8 m/s, however the cart maintains an internal "momentum" value that keeps the cart at the maximum speed of 8 m/s until the excess momentum is depleted.
Launching from rest via four powered rails, an occupied cart has enough momentum to climb a 1/1 slope 10 blocks high without further boosting, and then travel horizontally at a very slow speed for at least a dozen blocks before coming to a stop. Such a cart does not have enough momentum to climb a 11 block high slope. An empty cart in a similar setup will only climb 5 blocks and then travel a few blocks horizontally.
Powered rails will always show as powered in the inventory even if destroyed and collected while it was unpowered.
In the coding, powered rails are referenced as "goldenrail".
Unlike the Rail, the powered rail cannot be boosted by a pig.
 They are in Pocket Edition but they are unable to be turned off.
A powered rail is a type of rail that is used to decrease or increase the momentum of moving minecarts.
Powered rails can be crafted and previously-placed powered rails can be broken with bare hands or any tool, dropping themselves as items. To remove a powered rail, attack it.
A powered rail will also be removed and drop itself as an item if the block beneath it is moved, removed, or destroyed.
A powered rail will also be removed and drop itself as an item if water flows into the powered rail's space.
A powered rail will also be removed and drop itself as an item if a piston tries to move it vertically, or if there is no block beneath it at the new position after a horizontal move.
If lava flows into a powered rail's space, the powered rail will be destroyed without dropping itself as an item.
A powered rail can be used as a rail and as a redstone component.
To place a powered rail, use a powered rail item while pointing at a surface facing the space the powered rail should occupy. A powered rail can be placed on the top of any full solid opaque block (stone, dirt, blocks of gold, etc.), including full-block mechanism components (command blocks, dispensers, droppers, note blocks, and redstone lamps).
A powered rail can be placed on the top of a hopper, upside-down slab, or upside-down stairs.
A powered rail cannot be attached to the side or bottom of any block, but attempting to make such an attachment may cause the powered rail to attach to the top of a block under the destination space. For example, if a fence is on the ground, attempting to attach a powered rail to the side of the fence will cause the powered rail to be attached to the top of the ground next to the fence instead.
When placed, a powered rail will configure itself to line up with any adjacent rails (including activator rails, detector rails, and other powered rails), as well as adjacent rails one block up. If there are two adjacent rails on non-opposite sides, or three or more adjacent rails, a powered rail will line up in the east-west direction. If there are no adjacent rails, a powered rail will line up in the north-south direction (but if a rail is later placed to the east or west, the powered rail will re-orient itself in the east-west direction even if it is already connected to another rail to the north or south). If a rail it would line up with is one block up, a powered rail will slant upwards towards it (with multiple options to slant upwards to, a powered rail "prefers", in order: west, east, south, and north). Other configurations can be created by placing and removing various rails.
Powered rails (and other rails) can be used as "roads" for minecarts. A minecart that enters a powered rail's space from either end of the powered rail will continue to move in the direction the powered rail is facing, but its speed may change depending on whether the powered rail is active or not (see below). A minecart that enters a powered rail's space from the side will turn east or south (depending on the powered rail's orientation), or in the downward direction for a slanted powered rail.
Powered rails can be used to affect the speed of minecarts that travel over them.
A powered rail is a redstone mechanism and can be activated by an adjacent active power component (for example, a redstone torch, a block of redstone, a daylight sensor, etc).
A powered rail is a redstone mechanism and can be activated by an adjacent powered block (strongly-powered or weakly-powered).
A powered rail is a redstone mechanism and can be activated by a powered redstone comparator or redstone repeater facing the powered rail.
A powered rail is a redstone mechanism and can be activated by powered redstone dust configured to point at the powered rail, or a directionless "dot" next to it; a powered rail is not activated by adjacent powered redstone dust which is configured to point in another direction.
An activated powered rail will also activate any adjacent powered rail it is connected to, up to eight powered rails away from the original activation source. Thus a single activation source can activate up to 17 powered rails (one original in the middle and eight on either side). An activated powered rail will not activate adjacent powered rails which it is not connected to.
An active powered rail will increase the speed of a moving minecart in the direction it is already moving.
An active powered rail will accelerate a non-moving minecart away from a solid opaque block the powered rail is facing (so a non-moving minecart will move away from the block when the powered rail activates, and a moving minecart will "bounce" off of a block an active powered rail is facing because it stops and then gets accelerated away).
An inactive powered rail will reduce the speed of a moving minecart, usually stopping it within one block's distance even on a downward-slanted track. If a slanted powered rail activates with a non-moving minecart on it, the minecart will start moving downwards (because it is no longer being braked by an inactive powered rail) and will then be accelerated downwards.
Powered rails cannot increase the speed of a minecart to more than 8 blocks per second on either the north-south or east-west axis. The speeds that can be achieved with varying numbers of powered rails or intervals of normal rails between powered rails is complex -- for a thorough discussion, see Tutorials/Minecarts.
A powered rail has the ID name minecraft:golden_rail and is further defined by its block data. A powered rail also has a block state which is expected to replace the functionality of block data in a future version.
A powered rail's block data stores its orientation and activation status.
Powered rails were originally a suggestion for golden tracks.
In Pocket Edition powered rails are always powered and the central "powered" rail in the middle of the track is red rather than brown, possibly referencing the Redstone used to make it.
