 Pumpkins are blocks that appear on grass in a similar manner to mushrooms but does not spread. They are found most commonly in Mountain and Plain Biomes, but can also appear in sandy and snow covered areas, albeit rarely. They can appear in Swamp biomes as of Update 1.8. They are usually found in groups but can sometimes be found as one single pumpkin. Natural pumpkins are rarer than diamond ore, most commonly found in mountain and hill biomes. They look like Jack-O-Lanterns.
Harvested pumpkins can be equipped as a helmet without any actual armor value. It is unique in that it limits the player's view of the world as if it were seen from inside the pumpkin. The pumpkin helmet can be removed and placed into the player's inventory. Although it has no armor value, it can be a serious help during nighttime expeditions: When worn as a helmet, the player may look directly at endermen with no worry as to whether the Enderman will attack the player.
Pumpkins can be use to make jack-o-lantern, a decorative item that lights an area up and can be placed underwater.
As of the 1.9 pre-release, a snow golem can be crafted by vertically stacking two snow block on the ground, then placing a pumpkin on top of it. Snow Golems throw snowball at hostile mobs.
It is rarely possible for pumpkins to be found in strongholds, dungeons, and abandoned mine shafts.
One pumpkin can be crafted to make four pumpkin seeds.
Iron golems are made with Pumpkins and iron block, by 2 iron blocks up 1 on both sides and 1 pumpkin on top.
A player can create pumpkin pie using a pumpkin, sugar and an egg. The pie restores  when eaten.
Pumpkin has Data values up to 4.
0: Facing south.
1: Facing west.
2: Facing north.
3: Facing east.
4: Faceless.
The pumpkins already have faces carved into them when they grow.
When worn in the Xbox 360 version it has no real use other than aesthetic purposes.
Pumpkins cannot be placed when there is an air block below it. .
When a Pumpkin is pushed from a piston from below, it will break and you can collect it.
Pumpkins cannot be pulled back by Sticky Pistons.
When you wear a pumpkin in The End, the Endermen will not bother you. However, the disadvantage is that it limits your field of vision, which can increase the danger of the dragon successfully attacking you.
A player wearing a pumpkin.
A group of pumpkins spawned naturally.
Inside view of a pumpkin.
Close up of player wearing pumpkin.
Pumpkin Seeds.
Pumpkin Pie.
Add a photo to this gallery.
Pumpkins are blocks that appear on grass, spawned in random clusters in most Overworld biomes, though somewhat rarely.
Pumpkins can be mined with any tool, but axes are the quickest.
When a pumpkin is pushed by a piston, it breaks and drops as an item.
Pumpkins may generate naturally in most biomes in the Overworld.
Pumpkin farming strategies parallel those of melons. Planted pumpkin seeds grow a central stem that, after maturing, spawns pumpkins randomly in adjacent vacant dirt/grass/farmland. If a pumpkin is harvested without also cutting the central stalk, another pumpkin will spawn afterwards without requiring replanting or waiting for the stalk to mature again.
Pumpkin stems take around 10 to 30 minutes to fully develop. Bone Meal can be used on pumpkin stems to become fully-grown, but will not produce a pumpkin immediately.
If a mob wearing a pumpkin is killed using a tool enchanted with Looting, there will be a chance equivalent to the level of Looting used to drop the pumpkin, up to a maximum of a 3% chance of a drop.
A pumpkin can be equipped as a helmet without any actual armor value, but will instead function as a mask that allows the player to look at Endermen without provoking an attack. When worn, they limit the player's viewing area to a mask pattern that resembles the pumpkin's carved face.
Pumpkins can be used to make Snow Golems and Iron Golems as shown below. Snow Golems require snow blocks for their bodies, while Iron Golems require iron blocks. The pumpkin must be placed last or the Golem will not spawn.
Pumpkins cannot be placed without a block under them, but once placed, will remain even if the block underneath is mined away. When placed, pumpkins automatically face the player. Pumpkins cannot be placed on a transparent block.
Farmers will buy 8-13 pumpkins for an emerald.
The pumpkin is the only headgear that obstructs the player's view.
A group of pumpkins.
A player wearing a pumpkin as a head.
View of the world inside a pumpkin helmet.
A screenshot of a pumpkin on a stem in Beta 1.8 pre-release.
Looking at an Enderman with a Pumpkin helmet on. Notice that its back is turned and is not attacking the player.
A floating pumpkin due to ponds being generated after the rest of the terrain.
A skeleton and a zombie wearing a pumpkin and a Jack o'Lantern respectively on the date of Halloween.
Naturally occurring pumpkin.
A glitch of a baby Zombie trying to wear a pumpkin on its head, but instead the pumpkin is floating above its head.
 Farming pumpkins and melons isn’t very difficult, but there are a few tips and tricks which make pumpkin and melon farming easier and a lot more efficient.
There are 2 ways in which you can increase your yield and efficiency, one is by using a set up that allows for the most pumpkins and melons to spawn in the shortest time, while the other will allow the most pumpkins and melons to spawn on as little land as possible.
Of course, before we can do any farming we first need to know how to farm. Farming is very easy in minecraft, you simply till land and plant a seed, much like real life but without the physical effort.
To till land you need a hoe, any hoe will do as they’re all equal in speed. Right click either a dirt or grass block while holding a hoe, the land will instantly turn into farmland, which is what we need to plant seeds. Once you have a row of farmland, plant a seed in each farmland block by right clicking it while holding a melon or pumpkin seed. A small sapling will be placed, which will grow into either a pumpkin or melon stalk over time, depending on which seed you planted.
You could stop right here, but there’s one final step we need to take, which will increase the speed at which our saplings grow. By placing water up to 3 blocks away from your farmland, all the farmland around it (up to 3 blocks) will be hydrated, which turns it into a darker brown colour. Any crops on hydrated farmland will grow faster.
Unlike wheat, melons and pumpkins don’t grow on the block you planted it. Instead, a pumpkin or melon will spawn on any available grass or dirt block next to the fully grown pumpkin or melon stalk. This means you need to leave some space between each row of seeds you plant or else nothing will grow. Note that only 1 pumpkin or melon block can spawn per melon or pumpkin stalk, but more than 1 stalk can attach itself to a single pumpkin.
If a pumpkin or melon stalk spawns a pumpkin or melon, all other stalks of the same type next to that pumpkin or melon will attach themselves to it, which means they won’t grow another melon or pumpkin until you destroy the one they’re attached to.
Time efficient farming is all about getting as many pumpkins or melons in a short time, which is very easy to set up, but it does require a lot of player input on a regular basis.
As we know a pumpkin or melon can spawn on each block next to one of their stalks, as long as it’s empty. This means they can spawn in up to 4 blocks per stalk. We use this to our advantage, as pumpkins and melons will spawn a lot faster when more spaces are available to them to spawn in.
Our field will be a simple rectangle in which we plant rows of seeds, however, we leave a space between each seed to make sure we maximize the spaces in which pumpkins can spawn. Note that we only leave 1 space between each seed instead of 2, this will decrease the size of our farm, but it does mean 1 pumpkin will attach itself to 2 stalks.
It’s possible to leave 2 spaces between each seed you plant, but we’re going to harvest the melons and pumpkins as fast as possible, which means we don’t really need that extra space and it makes our field a little too big, especially if you have to run from one side to the other to get a melon.
We also know a single block of water will hydrate all farmland up to 3 blocks away from it, including diagonally. Which means we can simply plant our seeds around that water block. We’ll have to sacrifice 1 potential spawn spot for that water block, but this is definitely worth it.
As I mentioned, this setup requires a lot more player input on a regular basis, as you’ll have to harvest each melon or pumpkin pretty much as soon as it spawns in order to free all the stalks. However, this is a great setup for those who are building in the area or doing other jobs around it, as you can simply walk over to your field every few minutes.
I’ve personally tested this setup compared to a regular, land efficient setup over the course of an hour and I harvested each melon as soon as it spawned. I got more than 30 melon spawns in this setup than on our land efficient setup. Of course, nobody will stand next to their field for an hour in normal conditions, but the increase in yield can still be well over 15 pumpkins per hour more than our land efficient setup.
Land efficient farming is all about using as little space as possible, while getting as much yield out of it as possible.
The maximum percentage of land on which pumpkins or melons can spawn, while only using 1 block of water to hydrate your land, is 44,44%.
As you can see in the image below we have a 9×9 plot (ignore the bottom melons, you’d normally fence in the area) on which we have 40 melon stalk growing, which can each spawn on their own spot.
This setup is incredibly easy and only 1 step up from our basic farm seen above. It’s very easy to connect to other farms and there’s no waste of potential land, which would otherwise be lost or filled up with wheat.
If you don’t like the jumping you have to do to get from one plot to the other, the follow setup will help you.
The land use efficiency is the same, but you won’t have to jump (as much) as you would with the other setup. You could make the flowing water look better by adding some decoration pieces to it, perhaps our ufo?
