Trapped Chests are a redstone-related block that will emit a low redstone signal when a player opens it. As more players peer into the chest, the redstone signal will increase. Trapped chests can primarily be used to create traps, but can also create a few nifty redstone creations. Like standard Chests, two trapped chests can be put together to make a large (trapped) chest. They have a very faint red tint in some areas, suggesting the presence of redstone dust to the wary eye. If you want, you can strengthen the signal by putting a redstone repeater next to your trapped chest and to hide your chest you can put steps on top (or slabs).
Trapped chests work best as an anti-theft device. Trapped Chests can be used to trigger nearby TNT, with hopes of killing the unlucky soul who opens said chest. It could also drop an anvil, sand, or other potentially fatal physics blocks on the raider, using sticky pistons and a little bit of skill. Similarly, a dispenser will work just as well.
Trapped Chests can be made into double (large) Trapped Chests, and are able to be placed adjacent to normal chests without any interference, allowing two chests, or double chests, to be placed adjacent to each other.
 The Trapped Chest works exactly like a normal Chest, but can emit a redstone signal, used to create traps.
A trapped chest is a block that stores items and which produces redstone power when opened.
Trapped chests can be obtained by crafting, or by breaking previously-placed trapped chests.
To remove a trapped chest, mine it. Trapped chests can be broken using anything, but an axe is the fastest.
If the trapped chest contains items, the items will also be dropped when it is broken. If one half of a large trapped chest is destroyed, the corresponding items from the destroyed trapped chest will be dropped and the remaining trapped chest will continue to function as a small trapped chest.
Trapped chests can be used as containers and as redstone components.
To place a trapped chest, use the Place Block control on the face of a block adjacent to the space the trapped chest should occupy.
Two adjacent trapped chests will join to create a "large trapped chest". Trapped chests cannot be placed horizontally next to a large trapped chest, or where they would create a large trapped chest next to a single trapped chest (for example, a trapped chest cannot be placed horizontally between two other trapped chests), but trapped chests can be placed above or below a large trapped chest. A regular chest or large chest can be placed next to a large trapped chest without restriction, allowing close-packing of alternating single or large chests and trapped chests.
Trapped chests cannot be moved by pistons, and water and lava will flow around trapped chests without affecting them. Lava can create fire in air blocks next to trapped chests as if the trapped chests were flammable, but the trapped chests will not burn up (and can't be burned by other methods either).
A single trapped chest has 27 slots of inventory space, and a large trapped chest has 54 slots of inventory space. In a large trapped chest, the top three rows in the interface correspond to the western or northern chest block and the bottom three to the southern or eastern chest block.
To open the trapped chest GUI, use the Use Item control. To move items between the trapped chest inventory and the player inventory or hotbar while the trapped chest GUI is open, drag or shift-click the items. By holding ⇧ Shift and double-clicking while holding an item, all items of a type clicked on will be moved into or out of the chest. To exit the trapped chest GUI, use the Esc control.
By default, the GUI of a trapped chest is labeled "Chest" and the GUI of a large trapped chest is labeled "Large Chest". A trapped chest's GUI label can be changed by naming the trapped chest in an anvil before placing it, or by using the blockdata command (for example, to label a trapped chest at (0,64,0) "Loot!", use blockdata 0 64 0 {CustomName:Loot!}). If only half of a large trapped chest is renamed, that name will be used to label the GUI of the entire large trapped chest, but if the named half is destroyed the other half will revert to the default label. If both halves of a large trapped chest have different names, the GUI will be labeled with the name of the northernmost or westernmost half of the large trapped chest depending on its orientation (the half with the lowest coordinate in the appropriate axis).
A trapped chest can be "locked" by setting the trapped chest's Lock tag. If a trapped chest's Lock tag is not blank, the trapped chest cannot be opened except by players holding an item with the same name as the Lock tag's text. A trapped chest's Lock tag can be set or unset with the blockdata command. For example, to lock a trapped chest at (0,64,0) so that only players holding an item named "Alice's Key" can open the trapped chest, use blockdata 0 64 0 {Lock:"Alice's Key"}.
Trapped chests can be used to detect when their inventory is accessed by players.
A trapped chest is inactive while not being accessed, but activates when accessed by a player (see above). Accessing either part of a large trapped chest activates both halves of the large trapped chest. Mobs cannot access/activate a trapped chest, and a trapped chest is not activated by items moving into or out of it by droppers or hoppers.
While active, a trapped chest powers any adjacent redstone dust, including beneath the trapped chest, to a power level equal to the number of players accessing the trapped chest (maximum 15).
While active, a trapped chest powers any adjacent redstone repeaters facing away from the trapped chest to power level 15.
While active, a trapped chest strongly powers any full solid opaque block (stone, dirt, block of gold, etc.) beneath the trapped chest to a power level equal to the number of players accessing the trapped chest (maximum 15).
While active, a trapped chest activates any adjacent mechanism components, including above or below, such as pistons, redstone lamps, etc.
An active trapped chest will not power any adjacent redstone comparators facing away from it. Redstone comparators can only measure the block state of the trapped chest, producing a power level from 0 to 15 proportional to how full the trapped chest is. Anything else powered by an active trapped chest (including a block beneath it) will power redstone comparators normally.
Every trapped chest has an ID name of trapped_chest and is further defined by its block data and block entity. A trapped chest also has a block state which is expected to replace the functionality of block data in a future version.
A trapped chest's block data stores its facing.
Every trapped chest has a Chest block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the trapped chest.
