 Water is the most familiar liquid block found in the Overworld. When it is allowed to flow freely, it flows seven blocks horizontally from its source, but can flow downward infinitely. When water hits still Lava, the lava block is turned into Obsidian. On the other hand, when flowing water hits flowing lava, Cobblestone is created, whereas still water is touched by flowing lava, Stone is created. Players can utilize this to make Cobblestone or Obsidian generators, and make their own blocks.
Some Mobs can be drowned in water, this can be utilized stratigically in traps. Water traps are most noted to be used against Zombie Pigmen, however, this trap can work on Creepers, water can also be used to prevent creepers from destroying any land or building because explosions do not destroy blocks in water. Certain mobs show an odd fondness towards water, these mobs being the general peaceful mobs such as Pigs and Chickens. Groups of pigs can be found bobbing in water, and the occasional chicken is seen floating in water as well.
Water is also an important part in farming, considering that wheat, sugar cane, pumpkins, and melons all require water to grow.
The player can swim through water when it is in the form of a large entity, such as an ocean or lake. When a player enters a body of water and submerges completely, a row of small bubbles will appear just above their hunger bar (beside the health bar in PE). This signifies a player's oxygen level. If the player stays under water too long and the oxygen meter runs out, they will begin to drown. When drowning, the player steadily takes damage and it is more difficult to surface, and so this makes drowning a very irritating way to die.
Squids are often found in bodies of water, and fish can be eventually caught from any mass of water, big or small.
Water resists all types of explosions, including blasts from TNT. However, when TNT detonates underwater, the ground below it will be destroyed. This will cause the water to fall in and create unfilled areas, otherwise creating a vortex above-water that can be difficult to escape.
When Water is above another block, droplets will fall from the block below it. These are visible if you stand under it.
A Bucket of Water can be emptied on a solid block, causing a large amount of water to flow outwards from the block the bucket was dumped on.
Glitches and Bugs can occur mostly on Water, since Water slows you down mainly.
When Water is flowing downwards past the bottom layer of bedrock, the water will appear to flow downward, but never actually go into the Void .
Players can create infinite amounts of water by digging four blocks in a square and placing two buckets of water in two of the four opposing corners. This will not work with lava in the Overworld, but will in the Nether.
Water is considered a deadly block because players can drown in it if they run out of air.
If a player is between water and a Slab, the player will constantly keep jumping.
Water can be used as an elevator too. If you need to go down into a ravine or off a cliff, you can make two or three blocks (preferrably cobblestone, but any solid block aside from sand and gravel will do), then on the last block furthest away from the cliff, pour a bucket of water. The water should flow down forever, and you can use this to swim up or down the cliff. (However, this is not very safe as unless there is a pool of water below, as if you fall out of the waterfall you could die from hitting the ground too hard, and if you are going up the waterfall and being chased by a Skeleton, the arrows shot by the skeleton can still hurt you, and potentially push you out of the waterfall, causing you to fall and die).
Water can also save you when you jump or fall from a high place. If the water is deep enough, you can jump from any height without damaging yourself. To create a small pool, dig a small hole in the ground (about 3x3x3) and place 2 bucket of water opposite to each other, as a result, water will remain still. Works especially well under a ladder, where you can easily fall off. However, do keep an eye on the oxygen meter, you can drown. .
Water will occasionally be generated as a source block at the edge of a Ravine or vertical cavern without flowing into it, despite the lack of any solid block to keep the water out. This can be fixed by causing a block update (placing or removing a neighbouring block, changing such a block's Redstone power state or a neighbouring liquid block being affected by a block update).
There is a bug that when you (but actually you can't without use of an application) hack Pocket Edition for water, they will give you a water source block instead of a bucket of water due to the updates 0.5.0 and 0.4.0.
Water is a natural fluid.
Water itself cannot be obtained as an item no matter what, but can be retrieved with a bucket.
Water naturally generates in the Overworld in oceans, lakes, rivers, springs, and village and desert wells.
Players in water take 5 times the normal amount of time to mine blocks while grounded, or 25 times ungrounded.
Water spreads across surfaces in a slightly more realistic way but cannot spread on top of another water block. Water source blocks create a spring which generates flowing or falling water. When a spring is destroyed, all flowing water created from it will slowly dry up. If there is a hole six blocks or fewer from the point of origin, the water will tend to flow in that direction. Source blocks and falling water that has landed on a solid block will always flow in at least one direction unless restricted. Water will travel a distance of 8 blocks with the counter resetting to 0 every time it lands on a lower level. If a block next to a water source block is destroyed, the water will immediately flow in that direction unless there was a block beneath the destroyed block. If a block next to water is updated, it re-calculates its flow.
Spreading water will extinguish fire and wash out plants, snow, torches, carpets, tripwire, rails and cobweb it flows into, dropping them as items.
The water source blocks can appear horizontally and orthogonally next to 2 or more other source blocks, on top of solid blocks or other water source blocks. This is the principle the infinite water generators work on.
Dispensers with an empty bucket can suck in the water source in front of them when activated, filling that bucket with water.
In snowy biomes, water source blocks have a chance to turn into ice. They also appear when ice melts (except in the Nether). Ice will revert to water when broken if there is a block underneath the ice block.
The current in a water block determines both what direction it will appear from its texture to be flowing, and what direction an entity such as a player or boat will float from that block.
The horizontal current in a water block is based on a vector sum of the flows to and from that block from its 4 horizontal neighbors. For example, if a block receives water from the north and sends it both south and east, but borders a solid block on its west edge, then the current in that block will be south-southeast, because 2 southward flows (in and out) are combined with only 1 eastward flow (out). Thus, 16 horizontal directions are possible. If a branch in a channel is 2 blocks wide at its entrance, then entities will float into it rather than continuing in a straight line.
Water with a current pushes mobs at a speed of about 1.39 meters per second, or 25 blocks every 18 seconds.
Water reduces light by 2 for every block, in addition to normal dispersion, so visibility lowers as the water gets deeper.
There are three ways of increasing underwater visibility; using a helmet with Respiration enchantment, or using potions of Night Vision or Water Breathing.
Water bucket is a variation of buckets that is filled with water.
To fill a bucket with water, use it on a water source block. The block is consumed in the process. Using the full bucket on a solid block will place a water source against to its pressed side. In the Nether, however, the water will evaporate.
When activated, dispensers can let water flow out of water buckets (making a water source block), turning them into empty buckets.
Cauldrons are filled from water buckets.
Water spends most of its time as stationary, rather than 'flowing' – regardless of its level, or whether it contains a current downwards or to the side. When specifically triggered by a block update, water will change to 'flowing', update its level, then change back to stationary. Water springs are generated as flowing, and oceans, lakes and rivers are generated as stationary. This happens before most types of generated structure are created, and the main cause of water "glitches" is that generated structures do not trigger a block update to let water flow into them.
If bit 0x8 is set, this liquid is "falling" and only spreads downward. At this level, the lower bits are essentially ignored, since this block is then at its highest fluid level.
The lower three bits are the fluid block's level. 0x0 is the highest fluid level (not necessarily filling the block - this depends on the neighboring fluid blocks above each upper corner of the block). Data values increase as the fluid level of the block drops: 0x1 is next highest, 0x2 lower, on through 0x7, the lowest fluid level. Along a line on a flat plane, water drops one level per meter from the source.
Note: The video states that "Infinite water sources are found all over the world in shallower areas." Ever since the 1.5 update, this is no longer the case — water source blocks form even if there isn't a solid block under them, as long as there is a water source block under it, meaning even deep bodies of water can be used as infinite water sources.
While underwater, the player's FOV (field of vision) is lowered by 10 to simulate light refraction.
The old water texture can still be found in the assets and is used in the game if you are underwater.
The default water animation as it appears since the Redstone Update.
1.8 underwater particles, or "bubbles.".
A "leaky" roof. Notice the particles dripping from the block.
Water that is underground, but is still part of 2 different biomes. The color is split.
A geyser. A vertical column of falling water left behind after a large TNT explosion with no apparent source.
Water flowing into a cave.
These bubbles appear above the hunger bar when the player's head is in water, and when all the bubbles pop, a heart of damage is dealt every second until the air is refilled.
A naturally occurring waterfall.
The image that appears when you are underwater. (uses the old water texture. For more info, see Trivia).
Dec value: Source: 9; Flowing: 8.
Hex value: Source: 9; Flowing: 8.
Minimum tool requirement to break: None.
Blast resistance: 500.
Maximum stack 64.
Transparency: Yes.
Water makes up a large part of the map in the Overworld and can be found in every biome on almost all altitudes. In addition to lakes, rivers, oceans and other natural landmarks, water can also be found in desert wells and village wells. Water cannot be found in the Nether or the End. Placing it in the end will simply evaporate it.
Water is, of course, a fluid block, which means it will spread out untill it’s thin enough. Water will always start to flow from a water source block, plugging this block will stop the flow of all the water and any flowing water will disapear. Water will turn to ice in snow biomes, but only when it’s exposed to the sky. Any block above it, no matter the height, will prevent the water from freezing over. Heat sources, like torches and active furnaces, will also prevent water from freezing.
Water will always flow towards the closest lower block, if none are available, water will simply spread in all directions. Water will always flow up to 8 blocks away from its source, but water cannot be placed in the Nether. It will simply evaporate before it touches any block.
Water is vital for farming, as it hydrates farmland, preventing it from reverting to dirt. Crops on hydrated farmland will grow faster.
Water can also be used to clear an area from all the partial blocks around, like torches, grass and flowers. Flowing water will pop all of these out of the ground, which will then take them with the flow.
Water will stop falling players, which can be used to create fast shortcuts from high to low places. Even a single block of water, floating above a normal block by using a sign under it to prevent it from flowing down, will prevent a player from taking fall damage, no matter the height of the jump. Players can also climb flowing water, by holding spacebar, which is a slow but effective way to climb to higher places. Some players use this to create (togglable) water elevators.
If you’re standing underwater, harvesting blocks will become significantly slower, often taking longer than a player can breathe. It’s often best to either harvest the blocks while standing only waist deep in water, or to simply drain the water by creating a dam. Players and most mobs will drown in water, this can be used in various traps and monster farms, some of which we’ve covered in our guides, here.
When water flows over a lava source, the lava will be turned into obsidian, if it flows over flowing lava, the lava will be turned into cobblestone. Stone can also be created, which happens when lava flows over water, both source blocks as flowing water.
Water will contain the damage of explosions, making it a very effective blast shield. Note that only blocks under water will be protected, if the explosion happens only partially in the water, damage can still be done to surrouding structures. Water will also extinguish any fire and lava, this is both useful when venturing down in the Overworld, as well as preventing other players from setting you on fire through flint and steel or buckets of lava.
By placing 2 water sources 1 block apart in a contained area, the middle block will turn into a new water source block, allowing for the creation of an infinite amount of water sources.
Water allows for transportation by boat, which is faster than walking. Using clever systems of canals can greatly decrease travel time between far places. All dropped items and most mobs will be carried by the flow of water, this makes it extremely useful when building monster farms and other automated gathering processes.
Flowing water is a seperate block, which, like normal water blocks, can only be obtained through mods and codes. Although different, they act the same when placed by a player.
