Breaking, digging, punching, or mining is one of the most fundamental activities in Minecraft, performed (by default) by holding the left mouse button while the cursor is over a block. Breaking is used to create passages and tunnels, to clear away unwanted blocks, and is also the primary way of acquiring blocks for future placement or crafting.
Breaking is accomplished simply by holding break while the cursor is over a block. If the player is within a range of about 4 meters of the target, the player will begin swinging their hand, making a repetitive "thump" noise as the player hits the block, and cracks will begin to appear. When the player is in range, the block will also be marked with a wireframe cube outline, showing the current target. After the cracks completely cover the block, it will break, and depending on the type of block and the tool being wielded, it may be harvested for resources.
Although many blocks can be harvested with bare hands, the harder ones require the use of a tool. In particular, to get resources from stone or metal-type blocks, the player will need to use a pickaxe. For harder blocks like iron ore or obsidian, not just any pickaxe will do; the player needs one made from a higher tier materials. The player can also use shovels and axes to speed up digging of dirt and wood-type blocks (respectively), although they are not required to get the resource drop. The downside is that tools have durability, and so they eventually wear out.
The progress for breaking a block is reset if the target block changes while breaking. Progress is also reset whenever the mouse button is released. The player can move freely while breaking, and the player can even dig while jumping or swimming; although there is a speed penalty for the latter two.
The speed at which the player digs is controlled by three factors: The block the player is breaking, the item the player is currently wielding, and the mining penalties affecting the player. Every block has a hardness, which determines the base amount of time to break that block if the player hits it with his/her bare hands.
The base time in seconds is the block's hardness multiplied by 1.5. The first adjustment to this is based on whether the player can harvest the block with current tool. If the player cannot, then the base time is multiplied by 3.33.
Assuming that the player can harvest the block, the next check is whether the player's tool helps speed breaking for this block. See Best tools for a full list.
If the tool helps, then it increases digging speed by a constant multiplier, given in the following table.
If a proper tool is used, this multiplier is further increased by Efficiency. If the level of Efficiency is not 0, then the level squared plus 1 is added to the tool speed. For example, Efficiency I adds 2 to the value, while Efficiency V adds 26. The speed is also increased by 20% (additive) per level of Haste, and decreased by 70% (multiplicative) per level of Mining Fatigue.
Lastly, breaking can be slowed if the player is not on the ground. Breaking takes 5 times as long if the player is not standing on the ground while digging, and 5 times as long if the player is underwater. These two values can combine, though they are ignored if the block cannot be harvested with that tool, applying only the original 3.33 penalty.
The total time to break a block is always a multiple of ⁄20 of a second, or 1 game tick, any remainder is rounded up to the next tick.
When breaking a block, a tool plus its enchantments will do its speed value as "damage" to a block every game tick, and when that value equals or exceeds the blocks hardness times 30, the block is broken. If the tool plus enchantments equals or exceeds the hardness times 30, the block is broken with no delay, otherwise there will be a ⁄4 second delay before the next block is mined. For example, a player with Haste II holding an Efficiency V diamond pickaxe can break stone instantly, as the damage is (8+26)*(1+0.4)=47.6 which is larger than the base hardness of stone, times 30.
Fastest tools to mine specific blocks.
The following table shows the time it takes to break each type of block. Values with a red background indicate that it cannot be harvested by that quality of tool. If there is no tool that helps speed up mining the block, the five "tool" columns are left empty. Few blocks are harvested faster with shears or a sword. These speeds are listed in the last two columns, but only if it's different than "nothing".
Note that some blocks, don't drop anything even when they are mined with the proper tool; these are marked with a yellow background.
Any blocks with a breaking time of 0.05 seconds can be broken without the ⁄4 second delay. See instant breaking above.
[edit values].
