Creative mode is one of the main game modes in Minecraft. There are two separate versions of Creative mode, only one available in the full game, whilst the other, Classic Creative mode, is available for free on the game's main website. Creative mode strips away the survival aspects of Minecraft and allows players to easily create and destroy structures and mechanisms.
Creative mode allows players to destroy all blocks instantly (including normally-indestructible blocks such as bedrock) and the ability to fly. The only possible ways to die without the use of external tools are to use the /kill command, or to fall into the Void. Players are given an infinite number of blocks to build with and no health or hunger bar thus rendering the player immune to all damage. Taking advantage of this, players can create large constructions more easily. Creative mode is also often used in mini-sports, such as Spleef.
Once a singleplayer Creative mode world is created, if cheats are enabled, it can be changed to a Survival or Adventure world (or vice-versa) with the /gamemode and /defaultgamemode commands. In multiplayer, players can be individually changed between game modes with the /gamemode command available to operators. This means that individual players can play Creative mode (at the operator's discretion) on a Survival map, or vice-versa. The game mode can be changed to Creative by typing /gamemode creative, /gamemode c or /gamemode 1.
In Creative, the normal inventory screen is replaced by the item selection screen, which contains almost all blocks and items in a tabbed interface. There is also a search feature. One tab provides a Survival-like inventory, including armor slots (but is missing the crafting grid). Other tabs include foodstuffs, building blocks, Decorations, etc. Some items behave differently than in Survival mode; for example, empty buckets will never fill with water or lava, and water and lava buckets never empty, no matter how many times they are used.
Dropped items can be picked up by the player, but if the hotbar is already full, the items will go in the Survival inventory.
Flying is enabled, activated by double tapping the jump key (default is Space). Use the jump key to go up and the sneak key (default is ⇧ Shift) to go down and the movement keys (default is WASD) to move. The player can disable flying in mid-air by double-tapping Jump again, causing them to drop to the ground. Touching the ground when flying also disables flying. However, getting into a minecart or bed while flying will not disable flying when the player gets out.
Flying very close to the top of a block without touching it will generate footsteps sounds. As flying is much faster than walking, it will generate a lot of footsteps at once. It is also possible to hear wood footstep sounds when hovering right over some non-solid blocks like torches or signs.
When on creative putting an item in a frame doesn't cause it to disappear from your hand, instead duplicating the item.
Mobs will still spawn like in Survival (including from monster spawners), but all are neutral and will not try to attack the player. If the player enters The End while in Creative mode, the Ender Dragon will still attempt to attack the player, but cannot cause any harm.
Normally indestructible blocks like bedrock and end portal frame blocks can also be destroyed. Going too far into the Void will still kill the player in Creative, but the player can fly around in the Void provided they do not descend below the y coordinate of -64. This, other than the /kill command, is the only way to die in Creative.
Blocks that are destroyed by means other than clicking on them (destroying a block it is attached to, or, if it is sand, red sand, an anvil, gravel, or a dragon egg and it falls onto any non-solid block) can still be picked up.
If the player is holding a sword in Creative mode, they cannot break blocks.
If the player is in Creative mode, they cannot throw ender pearls.
If the player flies very high above the clouds, it will seem as if there are two suns, when in fact, both the sun and the moon are visible. This is due to the game's limited render distance; changing it will only increase/decrease the height needed to see this.
Some items and blocks are only available in Creative mode, such as spawn eggs.
In Xbox 360 Edition, creating a new Creative world or opening an existing world in Creative will permanently disable achievements and Leaderboard updates for that particular game, but have no other effects on gameplay. In other words, achievements and leaderboard only work in games that have always been in Survival. The inventory in Xbox 360 Edition is the same as the PC version, albeit with slightly different tabs and its own set of items.
The player can obtain items using pick block. Unlike Survival, the block selected will appear in the player's hotbar even if the block is not already in the hotbar or in the survival inventory. If it is in the inventory, then the block will move out of its former slot and replace the block/item in the active hotbar slot, with the size of the stack preserved, If the hotbar is full then the selected block will replace the block/item in the active slot.
Most blocks will give the player a copy of itself when using pick block. Using it on an item frame gives the player the item held inside. Using it on a mob will give the player a spawn egg of that mob.
If you hold Control and press pick block, in addition to obtaining the item, it will also preserve the blocks NBT tags. allowing you to place an identical copy of the block.
To change the GameType in the level.dat it has to be opened with something like NBTedit.
As of 1.2.1, the code is now different. You'll find the String "GameType" in clear text followed by 0x000000.
There are several blocks and a couple items that do not appear in the item select menu. Using Pick Block on these blocks doesn't give them except where noted. Using it on Huge Mushroom blocks gives the respective small mushroom, farmland gives dirt; using Pick Block on a Mob spawner or Dragon Egg does nothing. However, all the blocks and items listed here can be obtained with /give. Other blocks, such as portals and off-state redstone torches, do not have corresponding items. All of such blocks had item forms in versions before 1.7.2 or 1.8, depending on which version removed their item form.
Classic Creative can be reached by going to https://minecraft.net/classic and clicking on the 'singleplayer' or 'multiplayer' links.
For obvious reasons, any blocks added in the full release, Beta, Alpha, Infdev, Indev, or Survival Test cannot be accessed. In order to play classic creative multiplayer you must be logged into your Minecraft account.
Many of the blocks have been re-textured since. Many abilities on servers were lost as Creative and Survival became separate. (/fly, etc).
Note: This video states that hostile mobs are provoked by players who attack them. This is no longer true.
The void in Creative mode is impenetrable, except if you were to fall through a mined hole in the bedrock layer.
In pocket edition, if you die in creative you will keep your inventory.
Capture the flag.
Classic.
Hardcore.
