Customized is a world type replacing the normal varied terrain of the Overworld with customizable features.
There are 18 customization options which affect whether generated structures will spawn in, as well as other environmental factors.
Each of the eleven sections of this page changes the settings for each type of "ore". This can be used to change the distribution for almost all ores and minerals. The only exception is emerald ore, as it only generates in extreme hills biomes and the vein size is always one block. As the distribution is hard coded, it cannot be changed. The distribution of natural resources in the Nether (gravel, soulsand, Nether quartz ore and glowstone) also cannot be changed. Apart from these exceptions, the vein size, number and distribution are set. Here are the default settings.
There are 16 customization options which can be used to affect various aspects of Minecraft's terrain generator. These settings are on two pages, one with sliders and one which allows for text input. On the manual text input page, typing in any value lower or higher than the allowed parameter will change the value to the lowest or highest value possible for that customization option. The settings only change the mountains and valleys which affect the landscape. Rivers, biome location, and cave location remains unchanged at each setting.
Minecraft uses Perlin Noise to create the randomness of its terrain. Perlin Noise is a method for generating noise that transitions smoothly and looks more natural than 'regular' noise. For the surface, the Minecraft world generator uses many Perlin noise functions.Three Perlin Noise functions are combined to form the standard hills: a main function (Main Noise), a lower limit (Lower Limit) and a ceiling (Upper Limit). The world generator is calculated for each coordinate (X, Z) by comparing the average value between the lower limit and upper limit to the value of the main function. The base height (Depth Base) determines the separation between the standard hills and valleys and is independent from sea level (which is set separately on page 1).
The default scenery is not seen in the finished world, because each biome has specific properties. Planes are flat, hills have small to medium elevations, extreme mountains are high mountain ranges, oceans have deep, shallow valleys, savannas and mesas have low mountains with flat plateaus etc. Each biome type has an individual biome depth (Biome Depth) and an individual biome factor (Biome Scale) in order to perform the biome specific deformations.
The customized world type is based on a Minecraft mod Ryan Holtz made in 2012 called Wedge.
The following preset can be used to generate a world similar to the Amplified world type.
If you set all of the options to the maximum amount for every ore (Put 64 for Center and Spread height, 0 for minimum height, and 129 for maximum height for lapis lazuli ore), except for dirt, gravel, and stone variants, then almost every stone block will be an ore.
