The demo mode is a demo version of Minecraft for users who have not purchased the game yet and would like to try it out first, designed to replace the functionality of the outdated PC Gamer Minecraft demo.
The demo version of Minecraft can be played free-of-charge by registering a Mojang account and logging into the Minecraft launcher.
The demo version functionally serves to allow players to try out the game before making the decision to buy Minecraft. It allows players to play on a single world for a 100 minute (5 in-game days) period, before the map is locked, and required to be reset.
While the demo version does not expire, it comes with certain restrictions, as its sole purpose is to allow new players to try out Minecraft.
The following restrictions apply when playing the game in demo mode The demo map is preset and will always generate with the same seed which is -343522682. This means that the player Spawn, Seed, and Generated structures are always the same.
The following restrictions apply when playing the game in demo mode Players are normally restricted to Survival mode.
The following restrictions apply when playing the game in demo mode Multiplayer is inaccessible, although LAN is allowed.
The following restrictions apply when playing the game in demo mode The game time is limited to five in-game days (1 hour and 40 minutes real time). After the time runs out, players can still navigate through the world, but not interact with it. Resetting the demo world also resets the demo timer.
If you start a LAN world, you can turn cheats on and use /gamemode 1, 2 or 3 to use Creative Mode, Adventure Mode and/or Spectator Mode. If you are in LAN and close the game without saving while you are in creative mode you will be in creative when you load it again while not in LAN, but you can't use the cheat commands this way. You cannot switch back to survival once this is done unless you go back into LAN or reset the demo.
The demo mode can be played by both paid players and players which are trying out the game.
It is possible to install modifications on the demo version.
Servers can be started with the --demo flag (This is technically what the launcher does). Everyone who joins the server will see the demo message.
If you try to play a demo version prior to 1.3 from the launcher using a non-premium account, you will be able to play the full version.
Typing in "North Carolina" in the seed screen of the full version will give the same world seed.
If you exit the game without clicking "Save & Quit", the game will not save.
If you transferred your Minecraft shortcut and directory to a another by a hard drive/disc/etc., it will still be in the demo version, and your previous worlds will not appear.
The demo world.
The title screen in demo mode.
The contents of the bonus chest.
Tutorials/Demo mode locations.
