Dyes are items used to change the color of wool, leather armor, hardened clay, mobs, banner and glass. There are 16 dyes, which are bone meal, light gray dye, gray dye, ink sac, rose red, orange dye, dandelion yellow, lime dye, cactus green, light blue dye, cyan dye, lapis lazuli, purple dye, magenta dye, pink dye, and cocoa beans.
Most dyes are produced by crafting various flowers or other items, or by combining other dyes.
Lapis Lazuli can be mined from lapis lazuli ore in amounts of 4 to 8 per ore.
Cocoa beans can be harvested from cocoa pods in amounts of 1 to 3 per pod.
Ink sacs can be dropped by slain squid in amounts of 1 to 3 per squid.
Ink sacs can be found in dungeon and blacksmith chests and cocoa beans can be found in dungeon chests.
Red mushrooms can be smelted to make rose red.
Players can dye wool by placing white wool and a dye on a crafting table.
Dyes can be used on sheep to change the color of the wool. After shearing a colored sheep, they will drop the corresponding color of the wool, as well keep the color of their wool when it regenerates. Breeding colored sheep will result the baby sheep's color to be one of the parental sheep's color, or a resulting color of the combination of both parental sheep's color. Note that the color combining follows the same rules that dyes use - red and yellow sheep can produce an orange lamb. However, blue and yellow sheep cannot create a green lamb. The unlimited reproduction of colored sheep make dyeing and shearing sheep a far more efficient method to obtain dyed wool than just dyeing a wool directly.
Dye can also be used on tamed wolves. Using a dye on a tamed wolf will change the color of the wolf's collar (orange by default) to the color of the dye.
Hardened clay can be stained by placing 8 blocks of hardened clay around a dye on a crafting table.
Stained glass can be stained by placing 8 blocks of glass around a dye on a crafting table. Just like regular glass, stained glass can be crafted into stained glass panes. The recipe for this is the same as with regular glass.
Leather armor can be dyed by crafting dyes in with a piece of leather armor. There are a possible combination of 12,326,391 colors, as it is possible to put more than one dye on the crafting bench alongside the leather armor. Armor can be dyed multiple times with previous colors affecting the final outcome. Colored armor can be reverted to their original color using a cauldron.
The game has a specific formula for calculating the color of dyed armor: each color, in the RGB color model, has a red value, green value, and blue value. For each dye in the crafting grid, and the armor itself (if it is already dyed), the red, green, and blue values are added to running totals. In addition, a running total of the highest value (be it red, green, or blue) is also kept. After this, each total is divided by the number of colors tested. This effectively produces the average red, green, blue, and maximum values. The maximum value of the average RGB values is also calculated. Finally, each average RGB value is multiplied by the average maximum value, and divided by the maximum of the average RGB values. The modified average RGB values are then used as the final color. This procedure can be summed up with the following equations.
Due to the way this formula works, the resulting color will never be darker than the average of the input colors, and will often be lighter and more saturated. Of course, the resulting color will never be lighter or more saturated than the lightest or most saturated input color. In addition, this formula will never create an RGB value higher than 255 (which would be invalid in the 8 bit RGB color model).
A firework star can have a single color or a combination of up to eight colors when crafted with dyes. Adding one or more dyes to a crafted firework star will add a "fade to color" effect to it, overwriting any existing fade colors.
These primary dyes are created from a single ingredient spawned naturally in a world.
Secondary dyes are created by combining primary dyes together.
All the dyes have the ID name minecraft:dye. The color of a dye item depends on its metadata. The "color codes" are used to determine the color imparted on sheep, wolf collars, and dyed leather armor. The hex value is shown in the extended tooltips of dyed leather armor; however, to set the color using an NBT data tag in a command, the decimal value must be used instead.
Players can obtain each one of every color with 1 cocoa bean, 2 yellow dye and ink sacs, 3 green dye, 4 lapis lazuli and red dyes and 6 bone meal (2 bones).
The dyed sheep breeding behavior mirrors Lamarck´s theory, in which the organisms evolve inheriting the external changes and adaptations of the previous generation, transmitting them to their offspring.
In Pocket Edition, tertiary colors, along with their regular crafting recipes, can be crafted with primary colors. E.g.: Magenta can be crafted with one rose red and two bone meals.
