The heads-up display or HUD appears on screen while the Player is in the game. It is superimposed on his or her view of the game world.
The HUD consists of the user's health, hunger and experience bars, the hotbar, as well as a crosshair that designates the currently focused on block or entity. The armor condition bar appears above the health bar if the player is wearing armor, and the oxygen bar will display above the hunger bar if the player is underwater.
In Creative mode, the health, hunger, experience and armor bars are hidden.
Chat is also part of the HUD, in the bottom left corner, showing anything recently spoken or commands recently executed. This can be expanded with T.
The hotbar is a selection bar which appears on the bottom of the screen. It is where you store and select commonly used items. It consists of the bottom nine slots within the player's inventory, or the bottom five in the Pocket Edition. The selected item will also display on the right side of the screen, or an empty fist if the slot is empty. When the player switches an item in hand by mouse wheel or 1-9, its name is shown above the experience level for a short period of time.
The crosshair is a small cross in the middle of the screen. It shows the exact point where you will use the tool or item in your hand. the crosshair inverts the colors of the area it is upon, which could result in a nearly invisible crosshair.
Upon mounting a horse or pig in Survival or Adventure mode, the hunger and oxygen bars are replaced by the mob's health, which uses a slightly different heart texture than the player's health bar. Also, upon mounting a horse, the experience bar is replaced by the horse jump bar.
In the Options menu, GUI scale changes the size of the HUD and GUI between "large", "normal" and "small". There is also the default, "auto", which will change the size of the HUD and GUI depending on the size of the game window.
Players can toggle the HUD, the vignette effect on fancy graphics, and the dark lining around the block you are aiming at on the computer edition by pressing the F1 key.
The HUD also contains the debug screen, which can be shown or hidden using F3. Pressing ⇧ Shift+F3 will add the additional pie chart showing resource allocation.
In all Minecraft versions, the crosshair (and the expanding ring that displays when breaking blocks in Pocket Edition) is displayed in inverted colors. To invert all colors in iOS, you can go to the settings menu and turn on invert colors. On Android, one way is to create a widget on your home screen. When this is on, the block breaking and the crosshair displays what's under it in normal colors.
When the player takes damage, the held item will flash red.
