 This site is dedicated to all things minecraft related, from farming eggs to slaying the ender dragon, we got you covered! We have many extensive guides on all aspects of the game, including tips on how to build unique structures with different styles, full item and block guides, and farming techniques for all types of different crops.
Minecraft is a sandbox building indie game, based in world made of blocks. There is no real goal in minecraft, your own imagination is the limit of what can be done within the game.
The alpha version of minecraft was first released in May, 2009, and the official release version came out in August, 2012. At the moment, it’s available on eight different platforms; PC, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, iOS, Android and Raspberry Pi.
Minecraft is very much a community generated game, as the client allows for third-party mods, skins, texture packs, and custom maps. Because of this, the game has a huge variety of choice when choosing how to play, and overall it helps the game evolve at a faster pace than the developers ever imagined. The community has become so good at enhancing the game, that many features found in the latest version of minecraft, have originated from mods created by players.
As you’ve probably guessed from the name, crafting plays a big role in minecraft. It features an extremely extensive crafting system, allowing players to create a huge variety of different items, from materials that they have found in the world. Many of the items crafted are essential for survival within the game, and it’s very much a progression based system when you first start out in a new world.
There are currently four different game modes to choose from when playing minecraft; survival, hardcore, adventure and creative.
Survival is the classic default mode, players start out with nothing, and must gather food and resources to survive. Hardcore is the same as survival, however if you die in this mode, then the game ends.
Adventure mode is designed to be used while playing a custom map, mainly because you can’t place or break blocks while in this mode, and so, you must follow the map’s story without cheating. Players cannot choose adventure as a game mode when creating a new map, it must be activated in-game with the command “/gamemode 2”.
Capture the Flag is the next game mode planned to be implemented into minecraft in a future update,.
