For the removed mobs, see Human and Steve (Mob). For the character, see Herobrine.                                    .
The Player is the character used in-game by anyone playing Minecraft, and is generally considered the unofficial main protagonist of the game. The default skin is exactly the same as a human's, and is generally referred to as "Steve" (or Stevie in Pocket Edition). A player who has bought the game is able to set a custom skin on Minecraft.net, under their profile options. It's usually someone who failed to successfully log into Minecraft who appears using the default skin; very few people don't change it. But Steve is normally in Minecraft art.
The Player is 1.79 meters tall, has indigo eyes, light brown skin, and dark brown hair. The Player also wears blue jeans and a cyan t-shirt that is not tucked in properly. For most of Beta, The Player also had a goatee, which is commonly mistaken for a smile. It has since been removed.
Players spawn at their original spawn point, but this can be reset through use of a Bed, or bt using the command /spawnpoint.
In the older version of Minecraft known as indev, the Player made a deep "Ugh" sound if it was hurt or punched. Some people had complained that they had female skins so Notch changed to a flesh ripping sound or to be more exact, a sound that sounded like a tap. In the Pocket Edition, the Player's name is Stevie and instead of the tapping sound, the Player still made the "Uggghhh" sound and would be deeper sometimes if the player was at low health. Also, if the Player takes damage from falling, a sound like cracking bones will be heard along with the damage sound.
See here.
Previously, if a player was using an illegitimate version of the PC client, their skin would show up as a pigman.
If gold was the heaviest material in Minecraft, and the player had every inventory slot filled with 64 gold with full gold armor, he would be carrying the equivalent of 73,525,046.288256 pounds.
Despite The Player having a boy's name, they are actually supposed to be genderless. Notch has stated that the blocky appearance "made it more masculine". As of update 1.8 however, there now exists a female default player skin called Alex.
Human.
Herobrine.
The Player is the character that users control in Minecraft, and is generally considered the unofficial main protagonist of the game. The two default player skins are known as Steve, a name suggested by Notch as a joke and confirmed on the 'Profile' page near the section that allows you to change your skins, and Alex, with all unchanged skins being split between the two default skins. In the End Poem, after beating Minecraft you are called a player.
There are two default player skins, typically known as Steve and Alex, assigned to each player based on their account ID.
Steve has dark brown hair, brown skin, and blue eyes, with a light blue shirt (un-tucked on the left hand side and in the back), a pair of blue jeans, and gray shoes. Steve seems to have a slight stubble of a light brown beard, or mouth, depending on how you look or want to look at it.
Alex has long bright orange hair hanging to the left side, pale white skin, and dark green eyes, with a light-green shirt (un-tucked on the right side, and a dark green belt wrapped around it), a pair of brown pants, and grayish boots. Alex appears to have pinkish lips, and has thinner arms than Steve.
Both player skins are intended to be generic representations of a human being, although the player's skin can be changed.
In the Console edition, the player's default skin can vary from Steve or Alex to seven other player skins, as listed here. Multiple skin packs are also available for purchase on the Xbox Live Marketplace and the PlayStation Network.
As expected from a generic player character, the player character's personality is entirely up to the player controlling them. They can have a kind personality and can work with other players to survive, or act ruthless and kill other players for their items, at the cost of likely being known as dangerous and possibly being hunted down. The player seems to be very strong, as they are able to destroy many blocks with their bare hands, although the right tools break them faster, as well as carry enormous loads of blocks. The player is also able to "talk", by pressing the Chat key (T by default) and typing the words in.
In the Pocket Edition, the player makes an "oof" sound when taking damage like in beta PC.
In the Console Edition, there are 8 defaulted versions of Steve for the player to use (as well as many packs of new skins featuring non-Steve characters from various video games, such as 'Splosion Man from his titular indie game and Master Chief from the Halo series). There are also skins featuring different mobs, such as skeletons, zombies, and the Ender Dragon. The 8 default skins are Steve, Boxer Steve, Cyclist Steve, Tennis Steve, Scottish Steve, Prisoner Steve, Tuxedo Steve, and Athlete Steve. Some variants of Steve look nothing like him, while all are him wearing different clothes with different hair, skin and eye colors. The newest version also includes 8 Alex skins: Alex, Boxer Alex, Cyclist Alex, Tennis Alex, Scottish Alex, Prisoner Alex, Tuxedo Alex and Athlete Alex.
The player has 10 full hearts or 20 health points. One full heart represents two health. When the player's hunger bar is at 18 points or higher, their health will slowly regenerate by half a heart (one health point) every four seconds. The hunger bar depletes faster when the player does things like sprinting, jumping, attacking mobs, and mining, and it can be refilled by eating food. If the hunger bar is at 17 points or lower, the player will not regenerate health unless in Peaceful difficulty (or under the effect of certain potions). If the hunger bar is down to 0, the player will start starving and losing health. On Hard difficulty, starvation will kill you. On normal difficulty, it will bring you down to half of a heart. On easy difficulty, it will bring you down to 5 hearts. On peaceful difficulty the health bar will recover regardless of hunger but will still take starvation damage, and the hunger bar will not lose any points, even when under the effect of food poisoning. Notably, if the player is killed by fall damage, mobs, or other things, right after the death, the screen will say, "You died! Would you like to respawn or exit?" (Note that if you respawn, all of your items and experience will be lost). If you exit, and re-enter, the same screen will show up.
The player walks at a rate of about 4.317 meters (blocks) per second. This means that the player can walk a total of 5181 blocks (5.2 km) in one Minecraft day.
The player is able to sprint, draining the food bar considerably (10×) faster than usual while doing so. The player is capable of sprinting approximately 5.612 blocks per second, as opposed to the regular pace of 4.317. The player can jump four blocks horizontally when sprinting. The player cannot sprint if there are only 6 points or fewer left in the hunger meter. Sprinting is activated by double-tapping the forward key (default W) then holding it, or by pressing the sprint key (Ctrl by default).
Sneaking is a feature activated by holding the sneak key (default is ⇧ Shift). Sneaking prevents players from falling one or more blocks, making it highly useful for building horizontally outwards over empty space. If you are past the edge of a block and you stop sneaking, you will not fall off of that block. Additionally, the player can still dismount blocks while sneaking by jumping over the block's edge.
In Creative mode, the player flies at about 10.89 blocks per second.
The maximum height a player can jump without the "jump boost" effect is about 1.252 blocks.
The onscreen heads-up display (HUD) consists of the player's health bar, hunger bar, experience bar, and hotbar. The armor rating bar appears above the health bar if the player is wearing armor and the oxygen bar appears if the player is submerged in water. The HUD also contains the crosshair, and held object (or fist). The HUD can also be toggled by F1.
Experience points (XP) can be gained via experience orbs when killing mobs or mining certain minerals. The current level is indicated by a green number above the HUD, and the experience points can be used to enchant weapons, tools or armor with different useful attributes and skills (see enchanting table.) Anvils require experience to use.
The level increases by obtaining enough experience points. All levels and experience are lost upon death, but can be partially restored by picking up the experience orbs at the place of death.
Experience is also obtained through activities such as smelting (experience is only given when already-smelted items are taken out of the furnace), fishing, and animal breeding.
In Survival mode, the player is able to place and destroy blocks, and use all tools available. The player has limited health (heart icons), hunger (drumstick icons), and oxygen (bubble icons) and it takes time to break blocks.
In Creative mode, the player has the ability to fly by double tapping the jump key(default Space) and to place infinite number of blocks, but with limited use of crafting and tools. The player cannot take damage (except from falling into the Void, or, with cheats enabled, typing the command /kill), has no hunger and has unlimited oxygen, and breaking blocks is instantaneous.
In Hardcore mode, the player cannot respawn and the difficulty level is locked on hard mode. (If playing on a hardcore multiplayer server, the player is automatically banned from that server when they die).
In Adventure mode, there are no changes from Survival mode aside from being unable to break or place blocks unless they possess a tool with the CanDestroy NBT data tag for that block, or have a block with the CanPlaceOn tag. This game mode can only be played by having cheats enabled and typing the command /gamemode adventure, /gamemode a, or /gamemode 2, or by just opening a multiplayer (including LAN) world.
In Spectator mode, you can see inside an entity, ride them as if you were in a minecart, fly through blocks, and open inventories, but you cannot break blocks or change inventories. Along with Adventure Mode, it can only be accessed by typing in /gamemode spectator, /gamemode sp, or /gamemode 3. However, with the Debug Mode world type, the gamemode is locked as Spectator Mode.
Players in game are referred to by a username, which was chosen by the player upon purchase of Minecraft. This username is used to target the player with commands and differentiate other players. The username must be 3-16 characters. Players can also change their username, but only once every 30 days.
Users can change their character's skins; this can be done on the Preferences page of Minecraft.net by uploading a PNG image file, which will then replace the default skin. Players will also have the option to have three or four pixel wide arms on their character model.
The Console Edition has a separate default skin for each player. The ability to change that skin is available using the Change Skin option in the game. People who already have the removed skin packs can still use them and even re-download them (so they're still being hosted). If the removed skin packs are redownloaded on someone else's console they will become available to any profile on that console (provided the skin pack doesn't have a demo version to default back to).
In the Pocket Edition, the player can change the skin by opening the settings from the main menu and going to the skin settings. The two default skins are Alex and Steve but you can get your own skin by the "Custom" button.
The player's eye level (According to coordinates while pressing F3) is 1.62 meters. Since their eyes are 28 pixels above their feet, leaving 4 pixels above their eyes (.23m), Steve is approximately 1.85 meters tall (6'1"). This seems to be confirmed by the game's code that shows Steve's hitbox being 1.8m tall and 0.6m wide. The Player's total cubic volume is 1664 cubic pixels, and since each player pixel is 193.67 cubic centimeters, the player's total volume is 322,273 cubic centimeters. The average human body weighs 1.062 grams/cubic centimeter. This means that the player's weight is approximately 342 kg (754 lbs). With these figures, the player would have a BMI of approximately 105.5, where a person with a BMI of ≥30 would be considered obese.
The old player damage sound can be found in the game files as classic_hurt.ogg.
The player seems to have peripheral vision. Lights and lit objects are more visible near the edges of the display (only with graphics set to "fast").
Steve's terminal velocity is 162 km/h (100 mph), less than the average human's, about 190 km/h (120 mph).
The sides of your field of view are stretched out (for example wait until sunset and look at the sun out of the corner of the screen. It will be twice as wide as tall). This may be referring to real life because we focus on certain objects in our field of vision, and everything else is blurry until we focus on it. It also may be due to the change from the original 4:3 aspect ratio to 16:9. Simply stretching the sides accomplishes this without actually changing anything.
The player can also have its arm width switched from the normal 4x12x4 pixel arms, to the new 3x12x4 arms. This causes the arms to become slightly thinner than the original and creates more varieties of custom skins for the player. This also has a default skin which appears to be the female counterpart of Steve, and has the nickname Alex given by the Mojang team.
Mojang has said that Alex "looks kinda like Jens from some angles".
Steve is featured as a Micro Mob along with a creeper in the LEGO set 21102 LEGO Minecraft Micro World.
Steve is an unlockable character named "Mr. Minecraft" in the Steam version of Super Meat Boy. The character has a shorter jump height than other characters, but can mine squares from the level and place them as platforms.
Steve's head is an unlockable helmet in the Xbox Arcade game, Hybrid.
Steve's head is a wearable item in Borderlands 2.
Steve's head is a wearable hat in DinoRun SE.
Steve is a playable character in Retro City Rampage.
Steve is a uniform named "Craft Miner" in Saints Row 4.
Steve is an unlockable character with a projectile that looks like a stone pickaxe in the game Alone in the Park.
Steve is an outfit named "Pitman", wielding an iron pickaxe and able to break barriers, in the flash game Strikeforce Kitty 3.
Human.
Mobs.
