The world border is the edge of the current Minecraft World. The default center is at 0,0 <x,z>, with a width and length of 60 million (60000000) blocks. However, with commands, it can be modified to become smaller, have its center shifted, and more.
The world border appears as animated, diagonal, narrow stripes. When the border is not moving, the stripes are translucent aqua. If the border is expanding, the stripes appear green, and if the border is contracting, the lines appear red.
While most entities cannot move through the world border, shot arrows, thrown snowballs, thrown eggs, and thrown ender pearls can still pass through the border. The world border always behaves in full block increments, even if it is set to a partial block. The world border's dimensions and location are the same across all three dimensions, and its effects still happen at all Y heights, even though it stops displaying below Y=1 and above Y=256.
If a player is on the wrong side of the world border, they will normally take damage unless in creative mode. While players cannot move through the world border, they can reach the other side of the world border through other means, including Letting the world border pass them as it is shrinking.
While players cannot move through the world border, they can reach the other side of the world border through other means, including Throwing an ender pearl through the world border.
While players cannot move through the world border, they can reach the other side of the world border through other means, including Mounting a minecart, boat, horse or pig.
While players cannot move through the world border, they can reach the other side of the world border through other means, including Dismounting anything at the north or west edge of the border.
While players cannot move through the world border, they can reach the other side of the world border through other means, including Using commands such as /tp.
Players normally cannot place and destroy blocks (other than lily pads) nor interact with objects outside the world border; though players can place blocks outside the world border by placing the block against a torch that is inside the world border, or using commands. Most blocks still function outside the world border, such as water and lava which will still flow through it, and most redstone which will still function. Exceptions include falling blocks, which will drop as a resource, and pistons or hoppers, which will simply not function. Explosions also work normally outside of the border, allowing them to still alter terrain, and light is unaffected.
/worldborder set <sizeInBlocks> [timeInSeconds]Sets the border to a square region with the specified size in blocks as the width and length. Optionally, a timeInSeconds may be specified such that the border grows or shrinks from the previous width to that being set over the specified time in seconds. If timeInSeconds is not specified, the world border changes immediately. To reset the world border size, set sizeInBlocks to 60000000 (sixty million). The border will still grow or shrink and the animation will display even if the game is paused.
/worldborder center <x> <z>Sets the center of the area inside the world border to the specified <x> and <z> coordinates. Tilde (~) can be used as a relative coordinate. To reset the world border center, set both <x> and <z> to 0 (zero).
/worldborder add <sizeInBlocks> [timeInSeconds]Adds or subtracts sizeInBlocks to/from the current world border width and length. sizeInBlocks may be a positive or negative number. Optionally, a timeInSeconds may be specified such that the border grows or shrinks from the current width to that being set over the specified time in seconds.
/worldborder damage buffer <sizeInBlocks>Sets the amount of blocks a player may safely be outside the world border before taking damage. The default is 5 blocks.
/worldborder damage amount <damagePerBlock>Sets the amount of damage a player takes when outside the world border plus the world border buffer. The default is 0.2 damage per second per block.
/worldborder warning time <timeInSeconds>Causes the screen to be tinted red when a contracting world border will reach the player within the specified time. The default is 15 seconds. The tint will not display if the user is using fast graphics.
/worldborder warning distance <sizeInBlocks>Causes the screen to be tinted red when the player is within the specified number of blocks from the world border. The default is 5 blocks. The tint will not display if the user is using fast graphics.
/worldborder getReturns the current width of the world border.
See World boundary for all the different effects of the world boundary prior to the introduction of the world border.
The "shimmery" texture was made by Ryan Holtz.
The reason the world border is at X/Z ±29,999,984 is that Dinnerbone put it 1 chunk short of that edge to prevent falling through the world.
If a dispenser or dropper is placed so its "face" is right up against the edge of the border, items, projectiles, TNT, etc. can be fired from the dispenser/dropper outside of the edge of the border.
