<Recipe>

{q1
What do you need to make a Nether Portal?
What are the materials for a Nether Portal?
How do I make a Nether Portal?
What should I use to make a Nether Portal?
What is needed for making a Nether Portal?
What is a Nether Portal made of?
What is the recipe of the Nether Portal?
Can you tell me how to make a Nether Portal?
How can I built a Nether Portal?
Where are the materials of the Nether Portal?
}
{s1|ga|Creation|Nether_portal
Once a frame is constructed, it is activated by fire placed inside the frame.
}
{t1|ga|infobox|Nether_portal
Consists of : Obsidian
Consists of : Nether_Portal_(block)
}
{s2|ga|header|Nether_portal_(block)
The nether portal block cannot be obtained as an item.
}
{s3|wi|header|Nether_Portal
It consists of a frame of Obsidian, four blocks wide by five blocks tall.
Once the frame is constructed, the player then sets the space inside the frame on fire, using flint and steel, or Lava and a flammable block.
}
{s4|gu|header|portal-block
Portal blocks are created when a Nether portal is activated.
Portal blocks cannot be obtained in survival mode, but it is possible to get them in creative mode.
To get the portal block, point towards one and click your mouse’s scroll button.
}
{q2
What is a Nether Portal?
}
{s1|ga|header|Nether_portal
A nether portal is a manufactured structure which acts as a gateway between the Overworld and Nether dimensions.
}
{s2|ga|header|Nether_portal_(block)
The Nether Portal block is a block that appears as part of the nether portal which teleports the player into and out of the Nether.
}

{q3
What is the recipe for an Enchantment Table?
How can I make an Enchantment Table?
What is a way to create an Enchantment Table?
What is the Enchantment Table made from?
What are the materials needed to built an Enchantment Table?
What is the recipe of the Enchantment Table?
}
{t1|ga|Obtaining/Crafting|Enchantment_table
Ingredients : Diamond x2
Ingredients : Obsidian x4
Ingredients : Book
Crafing recipe : [_,Book,_,Diamond,Obsidian,Diamond,Obsidian,Obsidian,Obsidian]
}
{t2|wi|Crafting|Enchantment_Table
Enchantment_Table : [_,Book,_,Diamond,Obsidian,Diamond,Obsidian,Obsidian,Obsidian]
}
{s1|gu|header|enchantment-tables
An enchantment table is crafted using 4 blocks of obsidian, 2 diamonds and a book, making it one of the harder to obtain blocks in minecraft.
}
{q4
How can I get an Enchantment Table?
How do I obtain an Enchantment Table?
Where can I find an Enchantment Table?
}
{a
crafted(x) => obtained(x)
dropped(x) => obtained(x)
}
{r
q3/[t1,t2,s1]
}
{t1|ga|Obtaining|Enchantment_table
mine(Enchantment_table,pickaxe[wooden]) => dropped(Enchantment_table)
mine(Enchantment_table,pickaxe[stone]) => dropped(Enchantment_table)
mine(Enchantment_table,pickaxe[iron]) => dropped(Enchantment_table)
mine(Enchantment_table,pickaxe[diamond]) => dropped(Enchantment_table)
mine(Enchantment_table,pickaxe[golden]) => dropped(Enchantment_table)
}
{q5
What is the use of an Enchantment Table?
}
{s1|ga|header|Enchantment_table
An enchantment table is a block that allows players to spend their experience point levels to enchant tools, books and armor.
}
{s2|ga|Usage/Enchanting|Enchantment_table
The enchanting table's main purpose is to enchant items.
The table will enchant all tools and armor except the hoe, shears, flint and steel, lead and horse armor.
}
{s3|ga|Usage/Light source|Enchantment_table
In Pocket Edition, enchantment tables emit a light level of 12.
}
{s4|ga|Enchanting methods/Enchantment table|Enchanting
An item can be enchanted by using an enchantment table and placing the item and 1–3 lapis lazuli in the input slots.
}
{s5|wi|header|Enchantment_Table
The Enchantment Table is used to enchant certain items using Experience Points.
}
{s6|wi|header|Enchantments
Enchantments, often shortened to Enchants, are special abilities that can be applied to any piece of Armor or certain tools whilst using an Enchantment Table.
Using the Enchantment Table method only allows the player to enchant all Armors, Shovels, Pickaxes, Axes, Swords and the Bow.
}
{s7|gu|header|enchantment-tables
Enchantment tables allow you to use your xp levels to add a special ability to your weapons, tools and armour.
}
{s8|gu|Enchantments levels|enchantment-tables
The enchantment table will allow you to enchant items up to a maxmimum enchantment level of 5. 
}
{q6
How do I use an Enchantment Table?
}
{r
q5/[s1,s4,s5,s7]
}
{s1|ga|Usage/Enchanting|Enchantment_table
Bookshelves surrounding the table, with a block of air in between, will increase the maximum enchantment level.
}
{s2|wi|header|Enchantment_Table
You can increase the chance of getting a better enchantment by placing bookshelves around the table.
}
{s3|gu|Using the enchantment table|enchantment-tables
Right clicking an enchantment table will open its interface, which has 1 inventory spot in which you can place your item.
}
{s4|gu|Enchantment levels|enchantment-tables
Bookshelves can unlock higher leveled enchantments when they’re with 1 block inbetween it and the enchantment table.
}
{s5|gu|Basics|enchanting
Once you’ve made and placed your enchantment table, simply right click it to open the enchantment interface and drag your item into the empty grid slot.
}

{q7
How to make a Potion of Healing?
What are the ingredients of a Potion of Healing?
How do you make Potions of Healing?
What do I need to create a Potion of Healing?
What ingredients should I mix to get a Potion of Healing?
What ingredients give a Potion of Healing?
How do I brew a Potion of Healing?
What is the brewing recipe of a Potion of Healing?
}
{t1|ga|Potions/Secondary/Positive|Brewing
Potion : Potion_of_Healing, Base : Awkward_Potion, Reagent : Glistering_Melon, Effect : Restores Heart.svgHeart.svg per potion., Duration (minutes) : Instant
}
{s1|ga|Recipes/Healing|Brewing
Nether Wart → Glistering Melon.
}
{q8
What should I add to a Base Potion to obtain a Potion of Healing?
}
{q9
Which base should I use for the Potion of Healing?
}
{q10
Which reagent is used for the Potion of Healing?
}
{q11
How can I create a Splash Potion of Healing?
}
{q12
What do you add to a Potion of Healing to get a Splash Potion of Healing?
}
{q13
What is the effect of a Potion of Healing?
What does a Potion of Healing do?
}
{q14
How to obtain a Potion of Healing?
}







What materials are needed to make a Bow?
How do I craft a Bow?
What do I need to make a Bow?
What is a Bow made of?
What are the components of a Bow?
What can I use to craft a Bow?
By which way can I obtain a Bow?
How can I obtain a Bow?
How do I get a Bow?
How do you use a Bow?
What is the power of a Bow?
How much damage does a Bow inflict?
Against which enemies should I use a Bow?

How many diamonds do you need to make a Enchanting Table?
How many Diamonds are required to craft an Enchanting Table?
How many Diamonds must I use to create an Enchanting Table?
How many Diamonds should I obtain to be able to craft an Enchanting Table?
How many Diamonds are required for an Enchanting Table?
How many Diamonds are needed to built an Echanting Table?
Are Diamonds required to make an Enchanting Table?
Do I need Diamonds to create an Enchanting Table?
Can I create an Enchanting Table without Diamonds?
What do I need to make an Enchanting Table besides Diamonds?

How many Bulks of Milk do you put in a crafting table to make a Cake?
How many Buckets of Milk are used to get a Cake?
How many Buckets of Milk are there in the recipe of the Cake?
What quantity of Milk is there in a Cake?
How many Bulks of Milk are there in a Cake?
How much Milk do I need for one Cake?
Is Milk necessary for crafting Cake?
What is the recipe of a Cake?
What is a Cake used for?
How do I obtain Milk for making a Cake?

How many Iron Ingots does it take to make an Iron Block?
How many Iron Ingots does an Iron Block need?
How many Iron Ingots do I need to create an Iron Block?
How many Iron Ingots are required for creating an Iron Block?
How many Iron Ingots should I use for an Iron Block?
How many Iron Ingots must I have to get an Iron Block?
How many Iron Ingots do I have to use for crafting an Iron Block?
Can I craft an Iron Block with Iron Ingots?
Do I need Iron Ingots to make an Iron Block?
How to craft an Iron Block?

<Blocks>

{q1
How do you obtain Obsidian?
How do I get Obsidian?
By which way do I obtain Obsidian?
What is a way to get Obsidian?
I would like to get Obsidian.
}
{a
encountered(x),place(chest) => obtained(x)
dropped(x) => obtained(x)
}
{s1|ga|Obtaining/Natural generation|Obsidian
Obsidian can be created when a Nether portal is spawned in the Nether or the overworld. This portal can then be mined, providing another way of obtaining obsidian renewably.
When a player enters the End, a platform of 25 obsidian blocks is generated for the player to spawn on. This platform can then be mined, and will be regenerated when the player reenters The End.
}
{s2|ga|Obtaining/Chests|Obsidian
Obsidian can be found in 26.0% of village blacksmith chests in stacks of 3–7, and in 8.0% of nether fortress chests in stacks of 2–4.
}
{s3|ga|Obtaining/Ender chests|Obsidian
When an ender chest is mined with a pickaxe without the Silk Touch enchantment, it drops 8 obsidian.
}
{s4|gu|Harvesting|obsidian
The only way to obtain obsidian is by mining it with a diamond pickaxe, which takes almost 10 seconds.
}
{s5|gu|Occurence and behavior|obsidian
Obsidian can also be found in chests in the blacksmiths of villages.
}
{q2
Where can I find Obsidian?
Where is Obsidian located?
Do you know where Obsidian is?
}
{a
spawned(x) => can_be_encountered(x)
}
{s1|ga|Obtaining/Lava and water|Obsidian
Obsidian is formed when flowing water hits a lava source block, and can be found naturally where water from a spring or lake has flowed over a nearby lava pool.	
}
{s2|ga|Obtaining/Natural generation|Obsidian
Obsidian can be created when a Nether portal is spawned in the Nether or the overworld.
When a player enters the End, a platform of 25 obsidian blocks is generated for the player to spawn on.
Solid pillars of obsidian can also be found on the surface which will regenerate when the ender dragon is respawned.
Obsidian also generates as a part of end cities.
Obsidian also occurs naturally where underwater springs flow onto lava, often at layer 10.	
}
{s3|wi|header|Obsidian
It is only found near Lava beds below sea level, and is created when Water touches a still lava source, causing the lava source to turn into an Obsidian Block.
For this reason, it is usually found very deep underground, by layer 10.
Obsidian can be created by pouring Water from a Bucket over a pool of lava, provided that the lava is still (or else it will create Cobblestone).
}
{s4|gu|Occurence and behavior|obsidian
Obisidian can often be found deep underground, as it’s created when water hits a lava source block.
Obisidian occurs naturally in the End, in which it’s created as huge pillars with Ender crystals on top of it.
Obsidian can also be found in chests in the blacksmiths of villages.
Obsidian will spawn in the Nether, in the form of an active portal.
Note that obsidian will only form when water flows on top of a lava source block.
}
{q3
Can I find Obsidian somewhere?
Is there a way to find Obsidian?
}
{a
spawned(x) => can_be_encountered(x)
}
{r
q2/[s1,s2,s3,s4]
}

What do you need to mine a Diamond?
What is required to mine Diamonds?
Is there a way to mine Diamonds?
Can you mine a Diamond?
What Item is needed for mining a Diamond?
Which Pickaxe can mine Diamonds?
What can I use to mine a Diamond?
What should I use for mining Diamonds?
Can I mine a Diamond without a Pickaxe?
Why should I mine Diamonds?

How many slots does a Crafting Table have?
How many slots are there in a Crafting Table?
Tell me about the slots of a Crafting Table.
What are the slots of a Crafting Table?
Are there many slots in a Crafting Table?
What are the slots of a Crafting Table for?
What is a Crafting Table used for?
How do you use the slots of a Crafting Table?
What is a Crafting Table?
How to use a Crafting Table?

What is the most rare Ore in minecraft?
What Ore is the rarest?
Which Ore is the most difficult to find?
What is an Ore hard to find?
What is the most common Ore in Minecraft?
What Ore is the most common?
Is there an Ore rarer than Diamond?
What are the different types of Ore?
Where do I find rare Ores?
How to find rare Ores?

Is Obsidian blast resistant?
What has a high blast resistance?
What has the highest blast resistance?
What has a higer blast resistance than Obsidian?
What has a high blast resistance except Bedrock?
Has Bedrock a higher blast resistance than Obsidian?
Is Bedrock the most blast resitant Block?
Are there more blast resistant Blocks than Obsidian?
What, besides Bedrock, has a higher blast resistance than Obsidian?
What is blast resitance?

What are Pressure plates?
What is the use of Pressure Plates?
What are Pressure Plates used for?
How can I use Pressure Plates?
How do Pressure Plates help?
What is a Pressure Plate useful for?
Can I use Pressure Plates with redstone?
What should I do with a Pressure Plate?
How to use Pressure Plates without Redstone?
What can Pressure Plates help with besides Redstone?

What are Pistons for?
What can I do with Pistons?
What can Pistons push?
How to use Pistons?
What can I use Pistons with?
What can be used with Pistons?
Why should I use Pistons?
When should I use Pistons?
What can't I use Pistons with?
What can Pistons not push?

How can I remove Cobwebs?
What should I use to destroy Cobwebs?
How can I destroy Cobwebs?
What destroys Cobwebs?
What are Cobwebs resitant to?
Can I destroy Cobwebs with Swords?
What is a way to destroy Cobwebs?
What can be used to remove Cobwebs?
Can I destroy Cobwebs without Swords?
What else destroys Cobwebs besides Swords?

Where can I place a Door?
Where is it possible to put a Door?
Where can you use a Door?
On which Block can I place a Door?
What are the Blocks you can place a Door on?
Which are the Blocks I can't place a Door on?
When can't I use a Door?
What are the reasons for not being able to place a Door?
Are there Blocks I can't place a Door on?
What is one Block you can't place a Door on?

How to mine Stone?
What to use to mine Stone?
What can be used to mine Stone?
Do you know how to mine Stone?
What to do to mine Stone?
What are the different ways for mining Stone?
What tools can be used for mining Stone?
What Pickaxe should I use to mine Stone?
What is sufficient to mine Stone?
What tools are not able to mine Stone?

Where are Emeralds?
What is the location of Emeralds?
Where can you find Emeralds?
Where is Emerald located?
How to find Emeralds?
Where is Emerald found?
What are the places with Emeralds?
What level are Emeralds located at?
Where have I most chance to find Emeralds?
Where would you most likely find Emeralds?
What is a level I can probably find Emeralds at?
What is a good place to mine Emeralds?

What level do you mine for Gold?
What is the best level for Gold?
What is the best level to find Gold?
At what Level can you find Gold?
Is there Gold under the ground?
What is the depth of Gold?
Where can Gold be found?
What depth is Gold located at?
Is Gold located in deep mine?
What level can Gold be found at?

<Mobs>

What do Creepers do?
What are Creepers?
What are the specificities of Creepers?
What is Creeper's behavior?
How do Creepers act?
What do Creepers generally do?
Are Creepers dangerous?
Do Creepers explode?
How to beat Creepers?
How to protect against Creepers?

What is the Wither?
When does the Wither appear?
Why does the Wither appear?
When does the Wither come out?
Where is the Wither?
How do you spawn the Wither?
How do you make the Wither appear?
What is a way to spawn the Wither?
What are the conditions for the Wither to appear?
Can I spawn the Wither?

Are Spiders Passive?
Are Spiders Hostile?
Are Spiders Neutral?
Are Spiders dangerous?
Will I be attacked by Spiders?
Will Spiders attack me?
Are Spiders friendly?
Are Spiders tameable?
Can I tame Spiders?
Can Spiders be Hostile?

What can you trade with Villagers?
Is it possible to trade with Villagers?
How can I trade with Villagers?
What can I trade with Villagers?
What will Villagers trade with me?
Can I exchange Items with Villagers?
Can I sell Items to Villagers?
Is it possible to buy Items to Villagers?
Can I buy Items to Villagers?
How to pay Villagers?

What tames Wolves?
How to tame Wolves?
How can I tame Wolves?
What can I tame Wolves with?
What can I use to tame Wolves?
Are Wolves tameable?
What is the effect of taming Wolves?
Why should I tame Wolves?
What Item should I use to tame a Wolf?
What is a way to tame a Wolf?

What happens when a Pig is struck by lightning?
What will a Pig struck by lightning turn into?
What becomes a Pig struck by lightning?
What does a Pig if struck by lightning?
What happens if lightning strikes a Pig?
What spawns when a Pig is struck by lightning?
When will a Zombie Pigman spawn?
What happens when lightning strikes a Pig?
Will something happens if a Pig is struck by lightning?
How can I spawn Zombie Pigmen?

Can Sheeps change color?
Can I change the color of a Sheep?
Will Sheep change color?
How to use Dye?
What to use to make a Sheep change color?
Can I use Dye on Sheeps?
Is it possible to change the color of a Sheep?
How do you make a Sheep change color?
Can Sheeps change color without Dye?
How do you make a Sheep change color without Dye?

What do you call a Skeleton riding on the back of a Spider?
How is called a Skeleton riding a Spider?
What is the name of a Skeleton riding a Spider?
What is a Skeleton on a Spider?
Can a Skeleton ride a Spider?
What is a Spider ridden by a Skeleton?
What is called a Spider with a Skeleton on it's back?
What is a Spider Jockey?
What is called a Spider Jockey?
How does a Spider Jockey act?

How can you get a Dragon?
Is there a Dragon?
Where is the Dragon?
What is the Ender Dragon?
Can you ride a Dragon?
What is the Red Dragon?
Can you ride a Red Dragon?
Does the Red Dragon exist?
Is there a tameable Dragon?
Can I tame Dragons?

What is an aggravated Enderman?
What is the difference between a normal and an aggravated Enderman?
How to aggravate an Enderman?
When the game is paused, what will an aggravated Enderman do?
What does an aggravated Enderman do if the game is paused?
What is aggravated Enderman's behavior when the game is paused?
How will pausing the game affect an aggravated Enderman's behavior?
How pausing the game will affect an aggravated Enderman?
Can I stop an aggravated Enderman by pausing the game?
Why won't pausing the game affect aggravated Endermen?

Can a Sheep be pink?
Do pink Sheeps exist?
Are there pink Sheeps?
Can I spawn a pink Sheep?
Is there a Sheep with pink wool?
Can pink Sheep spawn?
What's the chance of a Sheep spawning with pink wool?
How to make a Sheep pink?
Can you make a Sheep pink?
What is the color of a spawning Sheep?

Are there Horses?
Do Horses exist?
Are there Horses in the game?
Do Horses exist in Minecraft?
Can I find a Horse in Minecraft?
I want to know about Horses.
Do you know about Horses?
Where are Horses found?
Can I get a Horse?
Can you tame a Horse?
Are Horses tameable?

Where can I find a Slime Chunk?
Where can I see a Slime Chunk?
Do you know a way to locate a Slime Chunk?
How can I locate a Slime Chunk?
What is a way to locate a Slime Chunk?
How can I find a Slime Chunk?
Is there a way to find Slime Chunks?
How to know where a Slime Chunk is?
I want to know where Slime Chunks are.
Tell me how to find Slime Chunks.

What do Skeletons do?
What is Skeleton behavior?
How do Skeletons act?
Do Skeletons do something in particular?
What are the skills of Skeletons?
What can Skeletons do?
How do you use Skeletons?
What can I do with Skeletons?
Will Skeletons attack me?
Are Skeletons Hostile?

Are Spider Jockeys common?
Are Spider Jockeys rare?
Can you often see a Spider Jockey?
Do Spider Jockeys spawn often?
Are there many Spider Jockeys?
Are Spider Jockeys numerous?
What is the chance for a Spider Jockey to spawn?
What is the probability of seeing a Spider Jockey?
How often does a Spider Jockey spawn?
What chance do you have for a Spider Jockey spawning in your world?

How much Exp does the Ender Dragon drop?
How much Experience do you earn by defeating the Ender Dragon?
How much Xp does the Ender Dragon gives?
Do you earn much Exp by defeating the Ender Dragon?
Does the Ender Dragon drop much Xp?
Do you earn Experience by killing the Ender Dragon?
Can you progress much if you beat the Ender Dragon?
How much will I gain Xp if I beat the Ender Dragon?
Is it interesting to kill the Ender Dragon?
What does the Ender Dragon drop?

Can you dye a Sheep?
Can you change the color of Sheeps?
Can you make a Sheep change color?
How can I change the color of a Sheep?
What should I do to change Sheep's color?
How can I dye a Sheep?
What is a way to make Sheep change color?
Can a Sheep change color?
What to use for making a Sheep change color?
Can I use a Dye on a Sheep?

Are there several types of Villagers?
Are there different kinds of Villagers?
Are there different Villagers?
Are there many types of Villagers?
What kinds of Villagers are there?
What are the different types of Villagers?
How many different types of Villagers are there?
How many types of Villagers are there?
Why are there different colored Villagers?
What does the color of a Villager means?

Where do you find a Mooshroom?
Where do I find Mooshrooms?
Where are Mooshrooms located?
Where are Mooshrooms found?
Where can Mooshrooms be found?

SectionTitle Search for mob.

Which Mob can only be found in the Nether?
Which Mob is specific to the Nether?
Which Mob is only in the Nether?
What Mob is always in the Nether?
What Mob can only be seen in the Nether?
What Mob exists only in the Nether?
Which Mob is always in the Nether?
Which Mob spwans only in the Wether?
What Mob is not out of the Nether?
Which Mob can't be found outside the Nether?

What Mob can you ride?
Is there a rideable Mob?
Can I ride a Mob?
Is it possible to ride a Mob?
What is a Mob I can ride?
What are the rideable Mobs?
What is the Mob I can ride?
What is the only rideable Mob?
What is the only Mob you can ride?
What are the Mobs I can use to travel?

What is the smallest Mob in the game?
What is the smallest Mob?
Do you know the smallest Mob in Minecraft?
What Mob is the smallest?
What is the name of the smallest Mob?
How is named the smallest Mob of the game?
What is the biggest Mob?
What is the name of the biggest Mob of the game?
How is the biggest Mob of Minecraft?
What is the third smallest Mob?

What is the name of the green Mob that explodes?
What Mob is green and can explode?
What green Mob explodes?
What Mob that is able to explode is green?
What green Mob causes explosion?
What Mob is green and able to make an explosion?
What is the green exploding Mob?
Do you know the name of the Mob that is green and can explode?
How is named the green Mob that killed me by exploding?
What is the name of the green Mob that explodes when getting close to me?

What is the Mob that is created when a Creeper is struck by lightning?
What happens to a Creeper struck by a lightning?
What becomes a Creeper struck by a lightning?
What Mob appears when a Creeper is struck by a lightning?
What is given by a Creeper struck by a lightning?
What happens if a Creeper is struck by a lightning?
What does a Creeper do when struck by a lightning?
What is the Mob that spawn after that a Creeper has been struck by a lightning?
What effect does have a lightning on a Creeper?
How is changed a Creeper if struck by a lightning?
How is a Charged Creeper created?

What is the Mob that explodes?
What Mob explodes?
What Mob can explode?
What is the name of the exploding Mob?
How is called the exploding Mob?
What is the name of the Mob that can explode?
How is named the Mob that explode?
What is the exploding Mob?
What Mob will explode when getting close?
What is the Mob that explodes when getting close to me?

What Mob lives underwater?
What Mob can live undewater?
What is the Mob that is underwater?
What is the Mob that is in the water?
What Mob lives in water?
What Mob lives in the sea?
What Mob is under the sea?
What is the Mob that lives in the sea?
What is the Mob living underwater?
How is named the Mob living underwater?
What is the name of the underwater linving Mob?

Can I create Golems?
Is it possible to make Golems?
What Golems can you spwan?
What are the Golems I can create?
How many types of Golem are there?
What are the two different types of Golems?
How many different types of Golem can I create?
What two types of Golems can you create?
How to spawn a Golem?
What is the way to spawn the two different types of Golem?

Can Mobs swim?
Are there Mobs that can swim?
What are the Mobs that can swim?
What Mobs are able to swim?
List the names of the Mobs that can swim.
Are there Mobs that can't swim?
What are the Mobs that can't swim?
List the names of the Mobs that can't swim.
What Mob can not swim?
What is the Mob that can't swim?

Are there Bosses in Minecraft?
What are the Bosses of the game?
Is there a Boss in the game?
What is the Boss of Minecraft?
What is the name of the Boss?
How is named the Boss of the game?
What is the strongest Mob?
What Mob is the hardest to defeat?
What Mob is the most dangerous?
What is the worst enemy in Minecraft?

<Items>

How to enchant a Sword?
What enchantments can I use on a Sword?
What kinds of enchants can I use on a Sword?
What enchants can I use on a Sword?
What enchantments can you put on a Sword?
What enchantments can I put on a Diamond Sword?
What enchants can you put on a Diamond Sword?
What are some enchants you can put on a Diamond Sword?
What can I enchant a Diamond Sword with?
What are the enchantments I can use on a Diamond Sword?

How to use a Cake?
How much hunger does a Cake restore?
How much hunger does a slice of Cake restore?
How much hunger does an entire Cake restore?
How many slices can I eat with one Cake?
How many times can I eat from a Cake?
How many slices does a Cake have?
How many bites can you take out of a Cake?
How many times can you use a Cake?
How many slices of Cake can I eat from one Cake?

What are Music Discs?
How to use Music Discs?
What are the Music Discs for?
What do Musics Discs help with?
What can I do with Music Discs?
How many Music Discs are there?
How many types of Music Discs are there?
How many kinds of Music Discs are there in the game?
What are the different Music Discs?
Give me the list of the Music Discs?

How do you collect Milk?
How to obtain Milk?
How can I get Milk?
What is a way to get Milk?
Where do I find Milk?
Where can I find Milk?
What do I extract Milk from?
Where do Milk comes from?
How can I obtain Milk?
Where is Milk found?
What is the best way to obtain Milk?

Where do you find a Mushroom?
How do you obtain a Mushroom?
How do I get a Mushroom?
Where can I get a Mushroom?
Where can I obtain a Mushroom?
What is a way to get a Mushroom?
How to get Mushrooms?
Where do I find Mushrooms?
Where are Mushrooms located?
Where can Mushrooms be found?
Where are Mushrooms found?

What is a Compas?
What does the Compas Tool help with?
What is the use of a Compas?
What is a Compas Tool for?
What does a Compas indicates?
What does a Compas point to?
What does the Compass Tool point to?
How to use a Compas?
How to use the Compas Tool?
How can I use the Compas?

What can drinking Milk help with?
Why should I drink Milk?
What is the interest of drinking Milk?
What is the use of drinking Milk?
In which case should I drink Milk?
What is Milk for?
What is the use of Milk?
What is the effect of Milk?
What does drinking Milk help with?
What does Milk help with?

What can I do with a Pumpkin?
Can I equip a Pumpkin?
Can you equip a Pumpkin?
Is it possible to wear a Pumpkin?
How does a Pumpkin help?
How does wearing a Pumpkin on your head help?
How does wearing a Pumpkin help?
What is the use of Pumpkins?
How do you use Pumpkins?
What is the effect of wearing a Pumpkin on the head?

What do you get if you right click a Mooshroom with a Bowl in your hand?
What do you obtain by clicking a Mooshroom with a Bowl?
What happens if you use a Bowl on a Mooshroom?
What can I get by using a Bowl on a Mooshroom?
What is obtained by clicking on a Mooshroom with a Bowl?
What happens when I click on a Mooshroom using a Bowl?
What will I get if I use a Bowl on a Mooshroom?
What is the effect of using a Bowl on a Mooshroom?
What does using a Bowl on a Mooshroom will produce?
What does using a Bowl on a Mooshroom help with?

What effects are given by the Enchanted Golden Apple?
What are the effects of the Enchanted Golden Apple?
What is the use of an Enchanted Golden Apple?
What does a Enchanted Golden Apple do?
Why should I use an Enchanted Golden Apple?
What is an Enchanted Golden Apple used for?
What is the effect of eating an Enchanted Golden Apple?
How is an Enchanted Golden Apple useful?
What is the effect of Enchanted Golden Apples?
What can I use an Enchanted Golden Apple for?

What Sword is easy to enchant?
What Sword is the easiest to enchant?
What Sword's enchant is the easiest?
What is the easiest way to enchant a Sword?
What is the less difficult enchantment for Swords?
What enchant is the simplest for Swords?
What is the simplest Sword's enchant?
What is a simple enchant for a Sword?
What is the simplest enchant for Swords?
What Sword's enchant is the simplest?

How much hunger does a Pumpkin Pie give to The Player?
How much hunger does a Pumpkin restores?
How much hunger does a Pumpkin Pie give me?
How much hunger does a Pumpkin Pie can restore?
How much hunger is restored by a Pumpkin Pie?
How much hunger will I get by eating a Pumpkin Pie?
How much hunger is restored by eating a Pumpkin Pie?
How much hunger do I get back with a Pumpkin Pie?
What is the effect of a Pumpkin Pie on hunger?
What does Pumpkin Pies do on hunger?

Are there Horse Sattles?
What is a way to get a Horse Sattle?
How to get Horse Sattle?
How to obtain Horse Sattle?
Where can I find Horse Sattles?
How to create Horse Sattles?
Can you craft a Horse Sattle in Minecraft?
Is a Horse Sattle craftable?
Can I create a Horse Sattle?
Is it possible for The Player to create a Horse Sattle?

Can an Iron Pickaxe break all Ores?
Can I break any Ore with an Iron Pickaxe?
Can I break all Ores with an Iron Pickaxe?
Is an Iron Pickaxe sufficient to break all Ores?
Can an Iron Pickaxe break any type of Ore?
Can all Ores be broken by an Iron Pickaxe?
Can any Ore be broken by an Iron Pickaxe?
What types of Ores can an Iron Pickaxe break?
What Ores can be broken by an Iron Pickaxe?
What Ore is impossible to break with an Iron Pickaxe?

How many Snowballs can be held in a stack?
How many Snowballs are in a stack?
How many Snowballs are stackable?
How many Snowballs can I stack?
What is the stack number of a Snowball?
How many Snowballs can be stacked?
How many Snowballs can I carry?
How many Snowballs can I carry with one stack?
How many Snowballs can I put in one slot?
How many Snowballs can I put in one stack?

SectionTitle Fight.

What is the most powerful Mob?
What is the most difficult Mob to defeat?
What is the most dangerous Mob?
What is the Mob that causes the highest damage?
What is the Mob with the most attack?
What Mob has the strongest attack?
What Mob causes the highest damage?
What Mob is the strongest?
What is the Mob I should care the most about?
What Mob causes me the most damage?

What is the best Pickaxe?
What Pickaxe is the best?
What Pickaxe has the highest power?
What is the most powerful Pickaxe?
What Pickaxe has the highest capacity?
What Pickaxe has the best attack power?
What Pickaxe has the best durability?
What Pickaxe has the shortest breaking time?
What Pickaxe can harvest the most Blocks?
What type of Pickaxe is the best to mine Blocks?

How many Hearts does a Giant have?
How much Health does a Giant have?
What is the Health of a Giant?
How many lives does a Giant have?
What is the number of Hearts of a Giant?
How many Hearts will I lose when attacked by a Giant?
How many Hearts are lost by one attack of a Giant?
How much damage does a Giant inflict?
What damage do you receive from a Giant's attack?
How much damage is taken with a Giant's attack?

What Mob has the most Health?
What Mob has the largest number of Hearts?
What Mob is the most resistant?
What Mob is the most difficult to defeat?
What Mob has the smallest number of Hearts?
What Mob has the less Health?
What Mob has the largest number of Hearts except the Wither?
What Mob has the most Health besides Enderdragon?
Except the Wither and Enderdragon, what Mob has the largest number of Hearts?
What Mob, besides the Wither Boss and Enderdragon, has the most Health?

What can't you hit an Enderman with?
What can't I use against an Enderman?
What is inefficient against Endermen?
What weapon doesn't work on an Enderman?
What doesn't hurt an Enderman?
What are Endermen resistant to?
What are Endermen invulnerable to?
What doesn't affect Endermen?
What is useless against an Enderman?
What doesn't help to defeat an Enderman?

Tell me about fall damages?
What are falling damages?
What Mob don't receive fall damage?
Will Magma Cubes take damage when falling?
Do Magma Cubes receive damage from falling?
Do Magma Cubes take falling damage?
Does a Magma Cube take damage when falling?
Will a Magma Cube be damaged when falling?
Do Magma Cubes receive fall damage?
Are Magma Cubes hurt when they fall?

What are Zombie Pigmen automatically resistant to?
What doesn't affect Zombie Pigmen?
What doesn't help against a Zombie Pigman?
What can't I use against a Zombie Pigman?
What is impossible to use on a Zombie Pigman?
What won't work on Zombie Pigmen?
What are Zombie Pigmen invulnerable to?
What won't hurt a Zombie Pigman?
What is useless on Zombie Pigmen?
What doesn't damage Zombie Pigmen?

What is a critical hit?
How can I deal a critical hit?
What do I deal critical hit with?
What can I use to do a critical hit?
What can't I use to do a critical hit?
What won't deal critical hit?
Is it possible to deal critical hit by a Fireball?
Can I deal a critical hit with a Fireball?
Can Fireball make a critical hit?
Can you do a critical hit with a Fireball?

What is more powerful than a Diamond Sword?
What is better than a Diamond Sword?
What is stronger than a Diamond Sword?
What is more efficient than a Diamond Sword?
What causes more damage than a Diamond Sword?
What inflicts more damage than a Diamond Sword?
What is the stongest Weapon?
What Weapon is the best?
What Weapon inflicts the most damage?
What is the strongest Weapon, except Diamond Sword?

What is the best Armor?
What is the most resitant Armor?
What is the best Armor made of?
What is the best Tool?
What is the most powerful Tool?
What is the most powerful Tool made of?
What are the strongest Tools and Armors made of?
What Ore is used to make the best Tools and Armors?
What material is used for the most powerful Tools and Armors?
What are the best Tools and Armors crafted from?

How do I beat The Ender Dragon?
What is the way to beat the Enderdragon?
What strategy should I use to defeat the Ender Dragon?
How to defeat the Enderdragon?
What should I do to kill the Enderdragon?
How to fight the Enderdragon?
What do I need to fight the Ender Dragon?
How can I beat the Enderdragon?
How do I win against the Enderdragon?
What is the best way to defeat the Enderdragon?

How many hits can a Gold Sword afford?
What is the durability of a Gold Sword?
How many hits can I do with a Golden Sword?
How long can you use a Gold Sword?
How many times can you hit with a Golden Sword?
How many hits can a Gold Sword give?
How many times can I hit with a Golden Sword?
How long can I fight with a Golden Sword?
What durability does the Gold Sword have?
How many times can I use a Gold Sword?

SectionTitle Facts.

How many Bosses are in Minecraft?
How many Bosses are there?
What is the number of Bosses?
Are there many Bosses?
Are the Bosses numerous?
What do you know about the Boss?
Is there a Boss?
Are there Bosses?
What are the Bosses of Minecraft?
What is the Boss?

Is there an end to the game?
Can I win the game?
Can I finish Minecraft?
Is there an end to Minecraft?
Can I finish the game?
Do I finish the game by beating a Boss?
Do Minecraft has an end?
Can the game be finished?
Will I finish the game?
Is there a way to finish Minecraft?
Is it possible to win Minecraft?
Is it possible to finish the game?

What types of Trees are there?
What kinds of Trees are there?
What are the different Trees?
What are the different kinds of Trees?
What kinds of Wood are there?
What are the different Wood?
How many kinds of Wood are there?
How many kinds of Trees are there?
What are the species of Trees in Minecraft?
What are all the species of Trees of the game?

What are the different types of Mobs?
What are the categories of Mobs?
What are the different behaviors of Mobs?
What are the three different types of Mobs?
What are the three different categories of Mobs?
What are the three behaviors of Mobs?
What are Passive Mobs?
What are Neutral Mobs?
What are Hostile Mobs?
What are the differences between Passive, Neutral and Hostile Mobs?

Can Monsters respawn in flying object?
Can Mobs appear in a flying object?
Can Mobs spawn in a flying object?
Can Monsters appear in the sky?
Can Mobs appear in the sky?
Is it possible that a Mob spawn in a flying object?
Is it possible to spwan a Mob in a flying object?
Can I spwan a Mob in a flying object?
Can you make a Mob appear in the sky?
Is it possible for a Monster to appear in a flying object?

What is the effect of shooting Arrows through Lava?
What happens if you throw Arrows through Lava?
What happens to Arrows thrown through Lava?
What is the effect of Lava on Arrows?
What becomes an Arrow shot through Lava?
What will an Arrow do if shot through Lava?
What effect does Lava have on Arrows?
How do you make Arrows catch on fire?
How do you make fire Arrows?
Can you make a fire Arrow with Lava?

What do you get when you mix Water and Lava?
What happens if I mix Water and Lava?
What happens when you add Water on Lava?
What happens if you add Lava on Water?
What is created when you mix Water and Lava?
What is the effect of mixing Water and Lava?
What will be produced by mixing Water and Lava?
What will be produced if I put Water on Lava?
What happens if I put Lava into Water?
What is created when you put Water in Lava?

What happens when there is Water over Ice?
What happens when there is Ice under Water?
What occurs when there is Ice under the Water?
What effect does Ice have under Water?
What is the effect of Water on Ice?
What happens if I put Water on Ice?
What happens to Entities when there is Ice under Water?
What happens when you throw an Item on Water flowing over Ice?
What effect does have Ice under Water on Items?
What happens to any Block put on Ice?

What are the main Tools in Minecraft?
What are the different Tools in the game?
What Tools are there?
What Tools can I use?
What Tools are available in Minecraft?
What are the different kinds of Tools?
What Tools can be found in Minecraft?
What Tools can be used in the game?
What Tools are there besides Pickaxes?
What Tools can be found in Minecraft except Shovels and Pickaxes?

What time of day do Monsters come out?
When do Mobs come out?
When do Mobs appear?
When do Mobs spawn?
What time do Monsters appear?
What moment do Mobs come out?
What time of the day do Mobs spwan?
What time of the day do Monsters spawn?
When do Monsters appear?
What time of the day do Mobs come out?

Can you sleep in the Nether?
Is it possible to sleep in the Nether?
Can I sleep in the Nether?
What happens to a Bed placed in the Nether?
What occurs if I sleep in the Nether?
What happens when you sleep in the Nether?
What will happen if I sleep in the Nether?
What happens if you attempt to use a Bed in the Nether?
What will happen if I try to sleep in the Nether?
What happens if you try to sleep in the Nether?

What will make you move faster through Water?
What can I do to be faster in Water?
How to be faster in Water?
How to become faster in Water?
How can I swim faster?
How can you go faster through Water?
What is a way to swim faster?
What can I use to be faster in Water?
What should I do to swim faster?
What helps to move faster in Water?

What are the behaviors of Mobs in Peaceful Mode?
Are all Mobs Passive in Peaceful?
Are there Passive Mobs in Peaceful Mode?
Are there Hostile Mobs in Peaceful Mode?
Can Mobs be Hostile in Peaceful?
Are Mobs dangerous in Peaceful?
Are there Hostile Monsters in Peaceful?
Can Mobs be Hostile in Peaceful Mode?
What are the only Hostile Mobs in Peaceful?
What Mobs will still attack me in Peaceful?

Where are Lava Pools?
Where can I find Lava Pools?
Where is the best Biome for finding Lava Pools?
What Biome should I go in to find Lava Pools?
Where do Lava Pools often appear?
What Biomes do Lava Pools often spwan in?
What Biomes contain more likely Lava Pools?
What Biomes are Lava Pools more likely to spawn in?
What Biome is the best for Lava Pools?
What are the best Biomes for Lava Pools?

Is it possible to turn a Mob upside down?
How to turn an Animal upside down?
How to turn a tamed Mob upside down?
Can I turn a Mob upside down?
How can I turn a Mob upside down?
What name turn a Mob upside down?
How to name a Mob to turn it upside down?
What names can I give to a Mob to turn it upside down?
What can you name an Animal to turn it upside down excepted Dinnerbone?
What is the effect of naming a Mob Dinnerbone?

What are the dimensions of a Nether Portal?
How big is a Nether Portal?
How large should a Nether Portal be?
What is the biggest Nether Portal I can do?
How big is the largest Nether Portal?
What are the maximum dimensions of a Nether Portal?
What are the biggest dimensions of a Nether Portal?
How big is the biggest Nether Portal?
How large is the largest Nether Portal?
What are the largest dimensions of a Nether Portal?

Can I fish?
Where can I fish?
Where can't I fish?
How to fish?
How can I fish?
Is it possible to fish when I am in the Water?
Can I fish when I am in the Water?
Is it possible to fish under Water?
Can you fish under Water?
How to fish under Water?

What is Water level?
What are the different levels of Water?
Can the Water level change?
How to change Water level?
How to make Water level change?
Is it possible to change the level of Water?
How can you change the level of Water?
How to control Water level?
Can I control the level of Water?
What is the strategy to make Water level change?

<Externe>

Which Mobs were added in the version 1.8?
What Mobs are in the game since version 1.8?
Were some Mobs added in version 1.8?
Have some Mobs been added in version 1.8?
Was there any change about Mobs in version 1.8?
Were Mobs modified in version 1.8?
What Mobs were modified in version 1.8?
Did version 1.8 add Mobs?
What changed in version 1.8?
What was added in version 1.8?

What is Minecraft coded in?
In which language is Minecraft coded?
How has Minecraft been coded?
In what language is Minecraft coded?
What programming language does Minecraft use?
What is the programming language of Minecraft?
How has Minecraft been written?
In which programming language is Minecraft written?
Is Minecraft written in Java?
Is Minecraft coded in C++?

Who created Minecraft?
Who invented Minecraft?
Who is the creator of Minecraft?
Who made Minecraft?
Who has Minecraft been made by?
Who is the father of Minecraft?
What is the name of the creator of Minecraft?
What is the name of the person who has created Minecraft?
Who is Notch?
Who is Markus Persson?
What is the true name of Notch?

<Explanations>

How does Xp work?
How can I gain Xp?
How do I gain Experience?
How does Experience work?
Can I get Xp?
How is Experience used?
What is Xp used for?
How should I use my Experience?
What should I do to obtain Xp?
Where can I find Xp?
What are the ways to get Xp?
Will I gain Experience by defeating Mobs?
Is it possible to increase level?
How do I level up?

What is Spleef?
Do you have information on Spleef?
Do you know Spleef?
What is called Spleef?
Can I play Spleef?
How can I play Spleef?
What kind of game is Spleef?
What are the rules of Spleef?
Can you give me information about Spleef?
What do you know about Spleef?

What is the best strategy for breeding Villagers?
How to breed Villagers?
Can I breed Villagers?
How to obtain Baby Villagers?
Can Villagers been bred?
Is there a way to breed Villagers?
What is used to breed Villagers?
Is it possible to breed Villagers?
What is breeding?
Why should I use breeding?

What is a Mob?
Define a Mob.
What are Mobs?
Give me information about Mobs.
Where are the Mobs?
What are the different Mobs in Minecraft?
Are there Mobs?
What can I do with Mobs?
How to use Mobs?
Who are the Mobs?

Why can't I place a Door?
Is there something impossible to do with Doors?
Where can I place a Door?
Where can't I place a Door?
What makes placing a Door impossible?
What are the places where I can't place a Door?
Why can't I use a Door?
What are the uses of a Door?
How to use a Door?
Where to place a Door?
Where should I use a Door?